You
You
You
You
You
You
You
Thank you very much.
Great.
Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for another day of your grace, Grace.
Pay for by the very blood of Jesus Christ.
Sampled our great nation of what it means to sacrifice our lives, our livelihood, and even our time as everyone here.
Just pray that you give everyone here wisdom and insight to make good decisions for Frederick.
Those things that are true, to all concerned, fair, and to bring about good will to everyone here.
Jesus need me pray, Amen.
Amen.
Thank you, sir.
Question, Chairman Welles, who's the leadest in the pledge, please.
Amen.
Thanks to the flag.
A pledge of allegiance to the flag in the United States of America.
Thank you, sir.
Option of the agenda, how would the board like to handle?
Option in a second.
Second is there any question?
Favorite aye?
Aye.
I impose no.
We'll adopt the agenda as presented.
This is a section of the meeting that was reserved for citizen comments on any item that is on the agenda, but is not subject to public hearing.
So some of you folks who had signed up did come to speak to the tower issue.
Those comments need to occur during the public hearing for that item.
So this would be items on the agenda, but not subject to public hearing.
This felt.
Aye, Lawson.
Chairman, members of the Board of Supervisors, Thai Lawson.
I'm here on behalf of, I think it's other planning business.
It's not a public hearing.
Discount tire.
I want to point out that much work was done after the last Board of Supervisors hearing regarding exclusion of uses.
And these here tonight can just, I believe, send out a packet that had the list of exclusions that we had.
And I want to point out and I think I'm right.
They're still additional uses that we've taken out.
So we've made this even more restrictive since what you've seen before.
Took to heart the two property owners that adjoined this property's stated concerns about the property.
Greatly appreciate Supervisor Fisher's comments about the realities of this property.
Very busy corner.
A lot of noise from 522, 50, 81, and as he pointed out, especially on the exit ramps or the descent down into the city.
Nevertheless, we listen to the comments and we have taken out additional exclusions.
And so the way we've listed are things that we cannot do if this rezoning is approved.
These are uses that will never occur if this profit rezoning is accepted.
And for your convenience, I do have an attachment I'll give to you.
And it's, it's SIC 76.
And we learned something.
They're actually sub uses below 76.
They're four four digit codes.
And they include rebuilding motors, repair of cracked castings, agricultural equipment, repair,
blacksmith shops, cleaning bricks, all sorts of things that we are proforing that we will not do.
And again, these are these are activities that go into the realm of those concerns that were raised about noise.
Only other thing to point out is staff's comment about the compliances to promote highway commercial land uses.
It's an interesting phrase.
It's not defined, but can't help but point out discount tire replaces car tires.
And we think a highways and commercial activities, what better use than replacing car tires.
And we ask at the conclusion that you all approve, not only this, this profit and restricted rezoning,
but having listened in a little bit earlier, but a tax paying use as well for this corner,
not only real estate taxes, but business taxes.
Appreciate the time, Mr. Chairman.
Sir.
Chairman members of the board and Brooke Middleton here on behalf of General Harvest, the owner of the property that is under contract to discount tire.
We bought a derelict property that wasn't being used as a business.
Unfortunately, we didn't make a fit for us, but we think that this is a great opportunity for Frederick County.
This is an established business that will provide jobs and it will provide revenue.
And I would ask that you approve this application, so the business can start and be a good corporate citizen.
Thank you very much.
Chairman, those are all that have signed up for citizens comments.
And I also want to speak to an item other than the tower.
If you come forward, share your name, Magisterial District, and attempt to limit your comments to three minutes.
Very much. Hi. My name is Steve Perry, Stonewall District.
I want to speak on the discount tire.
I did bring some pictures.
I'd like to pass.
Work that would be okay.
I'm going on.
For three minutes.
I don't want to think they talk about the highway noise.
I'm not that concerned about the highway noise.
We've lived with that for a long time.
One of the things I am concerned about is the pneumatic sound of the tires coming off and that kind of stuff.
And the fact if you look at the first couple of pages, that's businesses here in Frederick County.
I don't want to name them to everybody else have no problem, but you can look and see what those business look like.
And then this entire last couple of times they've been up here, they said their doors are always closed.
There won't be any noise coming from the base.
They don't put tires out in front.
I just went through their website.
They have doors open.
Okay. And that is from their website.
It's from discount tires.
They're doing cars.
There's tires outside.
I just looked up on Google Earth because that was on their website.
I just looked up on Google Earth and I didn't have a chance to have a chance to print them obviously because I just did it.
So with the Google Earth, well, that's what they do.
Let's see what some of the discount tires look like in Virginia.
Guess what?
All their doors are open.
That's Google coming around with a camera driving down the streets.
We got tires outside.
They don't do it.
Remember they said they don't do it?
We've got noise obviously because the garage doors are open.
They don't do that either.
And the pictures I took of our businesses today with some garage doors open, that was in February.
There's no screening provided between our office building and discount tires.
It's going to hurt my business.
We've been in business since 1931.
That business has been there since 1985, I believe.
We're just, I'm not against growing.
I'm not against discount tires.
I'm against discount tires when it hurts my business.
And I just ask you guys, please say no.
They've already had other offers on their land.
If it leaves, stays in B2, they will sell it.
There was an offer nearly the same amount as what discount tires will in the pay.
They can sell it.
It's marketable land.
Is the intersection?
It's a very busy intersection.
Someone will come there.
And it will look better than open garage doors and noise in the area business.
And the travel lodge did ask me.
He couldn't be here today.
And he did ask me to pass on to you all that he's still adamantly opposed to having discount tires there.
Thank you guys for your time.
I really appreciate it.
Thank you, sir.
Welcome, sir.
Jason Ackens, Gainesburg district.
I know each of you received a letter from me and I appreciate you taking your time and reading that and listening to all of our concerns as an organization.
As I've stated in that letter, and I'm not going to reiterate everything because I've only got three minutes.
But we've been in that building, or we've had that building since 1985.
And we built that, we actually developed that whole corner.
And we did it under certain presences, and that it would be B2.
It would stay B2.
And I appreciate your all support to support the people that are already there that have been there since 1985.
And to reiterate what my business partner said that it doesn't take rezoning a piece of land to.
Excuse me, it doesn't take the board of supervisors approving a piece of land to get rezoned for it to sell.
Okay.
It's a marketable piece of real estate.
There's been multiple offers already placed and full disclosure.
I have no interest in the land.
So some of you have asked me why, why don't you guys buy it?
You're an adjacent land owner.
It doesn't fit our business model.
It's just not what we're interested in at this point in time.
But someone else will buy it.
The city or excuse me, the county will get tax revenue from somebody.
But it shouldn't be your all's responsibility to help a real estate transaction.
And don't forget that it's not about discount higher.
Okay, the guys from discount tire.
I've looked at their website to just like my business partner.
It's a professional building.
Yes, they have their doors open.
There is going to be noise just as previously stated.
But what's going to happen?
Ten years from now.
Who's the next guy that's going to come in there?
Are they going to run as clean of a shop?
As what discounters discount tire says they're going to do?
Remember, the parcel's been operating as B2 for at least 35 years.
It's been about been we've been a tenant for 35 years next to it.
And there's been three different restaurants.
Who's the next tire or discount tire company?
Okay, that's going to move in there.
Because once you have a building that's already built with garage bays,
it's more than likely going to be sold to some other garage of some sort.
Okay, so keep that in consideration.
I appreciate that.
And thank you for your support.
Thank you, sir.
Is there anyone else who came to speak to a subject other than the tower ordinance issues?
Anyone at all?
All right.
We'll get to you folks here in a little bit.
All right.
Bring us two orders.
Asers comments.
Are there any?
Good.
I mean.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
Too many pages.
Too much on consent.
All right.
I would like to handle the consent agenda.
That's presented.
Okay.
Second.
And I wanted to make sure that everyone understood there had been in addition.
Two.
Okay.
Sir, any discussion?
Anyone at all?
All those in favor?
I'm sorry.
We need roll call.
Supervisor Fisher.
Hey.
Supervisor McCarthy.
Supervisor slaughter.
Supervisor Wells.
Yeah.
Supervisor Dunn.
I was a great.
Hi.
All right.
Consented in as a job that has amended and presented.
That will bring in.
Mr. Chairman.
I will be making some comments that the end of this one legislation before the general assembly.
Perfect.
Everybody here.
So I'm just letting you know that.
I'll be doing that.
Thank you, sir.
All right.
We're comments.
Anyone?
All right.
Move to county officials.
Committee appointments.
Planning Commission.
It was a great.
That's Mr. Chairman.
It is my honor to present to you.
John Jules application this evening for the Planning Commission.
He has experienced managing several hundred folks in the US Senate as well as managing
several hundred million dollars on a repeat basis for the US Senate.
I have submitted his resume along with his packet.
Just so the rest of you on the board could see that.
Mr. Jules here.
If you would like to talk to him or if you have any questions of him, but I would like to make the recommendation
that we appoint Mr. John Jules to the Planning Commission for Back Creek.
One of the motions.
That is the form of the motion.
Thank you, sir.
Have a motion, sir.
Second.
Second.
Sir, any discussion?
Anyone?
All those in favor?
Aye.
Aye.
Mr. Jules appointed to the Planning Commission represent back create district.
All right.
That will bring us to committee business.
Human resources committee request for approval.
Supervisor Dye.
Mr. Chairman.
Human resources committee have.
And we have two requests.
The first request was for approval of the creation of a deputy secretary of security position for the IT department.
The committee recommended approval.
And I do some move.
Thank you for the motion, sir.
Second.
Second.
Sir, any discussion?
All those in favor?
Aye.
Aye.
Opposed?
No.
That one is approved.
Second.
Second request is the request for approval of the creation of a basic
rack coordinator position in the Parks and Recreational Department.
The committee recommends approval.
And I do some move.
For the motion, sir.
Second.
Second.
Second.
Sir, any discussion?
Anyone?
All those in favor?
Aye.
Opposed?
No.
No.
Now, he's have it.
The Pre-Eosition is created.
All right, sir.
Conclude your report.
Thank you, sir.
All right.
Public hearing is non-planning commission issues.
The 12-month-ite door festival permit request of Wavelin Farm, LLC.
Sorry, Mr. Chairman.
This is a request for a 12-month festival permit for Wavelin Farm.
Fair bit of history.
If it are those who may not.
In 2018, or should 2018.
Tue to a festival permit site.
Iteran applicant applied for a conditional use permit, which would have allowed the use of this site as an event center on an ongoing basis versus an individual event.
A of 2018, the Planning Commission recommended denial of that application.
So then, heard about ear, faint site for event.
Applicant.
Dup where they left off on their CUP application, and it came before the board in April of 2019.
At that point, the board denied the conditional use permit.
Shortly after that, in September of 2019, the applicant came forward to request, again, a festival permit for five events that they had scheduled.
That permit was granted.
Now, we have the applicant coming back.
They're in requesting, well, initially in January, I apologize.
They submitted a festival permit application for three events.
And then, centered and decided to amend that application to make it a 12.
That would do is, of them to.
So that's what you have before you tonight is a request of this property to issue a 12 month festival permit.
I know the staff can try and answer questions if you.
Thank you, sir. Any questions or staff? Anyone?
Yes, sir.
Professor MacArthur.
Is there a pending?
Well, some of these microphones are intermittent.
It's a brand new system we apologize.
We're trying to make friends with it also.
But do let us know.
We're going to, we're going to try.
Mr. Barners here are a T director.
It is a brand new system.
I'll repeat where.
There's some growing pace.
I'll repeat my question.
Is there a pending CUP application on this property or now at this point?
There's none.
Thank you, sir.
Other questions or staff?
This is not a staff, but this.
This is not a question of staff, but this is just a point of reference for this board.
The CUP process, the current set up as it displays.
You can only apply for one once a year.
And it has been within their one year process.
So I think they have to.
The applicant has to wait.
I believe it is until August until they could re-apply offer CUP due to the laws that are currently in effect.
One else.
Questions of staff.
Are you representing wavelength forms?
If you could have your name in.
James Chelsea Layman.
And I'm with the back street district.
Welcome, Ms. Lee.
Thank you.
So last year.
The last words that the board.
The last board meeting that we attended on September 25th.
We're pleased to disappoint us again.
And we are trying to make every effort to not let that happen.
As most of you know, we have been working with our supervisor for the back street district.
Supervisor Greber to acquire the correct guidelines and permits for us to operate our venue.
We do live on a 40 acre farm with a hundred-year-old barn that does not have central heat or air conditioning.
Thus limiting our ability to host events to just a small window of the year.
Roughly April through June and then again in September and October.
Our goal with this endeavor has been and continues to be to offer an affordable venue for smaller events.
For the event inquiries that are greater than about 125, we do happily refer them to the larger venues in the area,
such as Fox Meadow, West Oaks, and Trumpet Vine that are all fairly local.
As supervisor done suggested during the September meeting, any new inquiries that we have received since August.
That we have made it very clear and have been very upfront with everyone that we will not sign agreements.
And that all events are 100% contingent on us being granted a permit to hold these events.
As part of the application, we do intend on using our existing driveway as the main entrance and exit for events.
The Sheriff's Office will be employed to help with traffic control.
And we will be paying the Sheriff's Office for this service.
There was also a concern last year regarding our ability to control the number of people coming to a farm for events.
Being that these are private events and what you need an invitation to attend.
We have yet to have an issue with there being more guests than what's listed.
People tell us how many people will be attending.
If this is still a concern for the board, we're more than happy to provide rental receipts from grand rental.
Showing how many tables and chairs are rented for each event.
We do regret the decision that we made to hold the event last year without the proper permit and do want to apologize to the board.
Our goal tonight is to begin 2020 on the right foot and ensure we have what we need to hold events at our farm.
If it's okay with the board, I'd like to ask Mr. Petler to address you all.
And then I'd be happy to answer any questions.
Thank you.
Questions of Ms. Layman, anyone?
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yes sir.
Correct.
When you're going to hear.
Correct.
July and August are really too hot without having AC.
And then really anything that's after October up until April again is too cold.
And you know, have anyone out there?
Mr. Chairman, if I may.
Yes sir.
Ms. Layman, it is my understanding that the last time you were through this process,
you had to see you pee on the books.
And after the CUP got denied, you were given some instruction on how you could hold events legally.
Yes.
And you followed that advice unknowingly to yourselves that you were in violation.
Is that correct?
Okay. And then since the festival permit was granted last year.
Have you guys had any violations at all?
I would not.
So you had a festival permit with no violations and you had good neighbors.
Essentially, your neighbors have said that they are supportive of you.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Questions of Ms. Layman, anyone?
Thank you man.
Mr. Petler sir.
Mr. Chairman.
And as you as I'm steep, other with the law firm of here.
Half of wavelength.
And then now.
Is this better?
That's better.
Actually, it's way more sensitive than the one that used to be there.
So.
I'll be careful.
Well, thank you.
Good evening.
One of the unfortunate events that has brought me here tonight is.
The fact that last year.
When the layman's came.
Seeking council in a hired professional council to do that.
They had lawyer.
They had an engineer.
They spoke with their then supervisor.
And.
The council they received last year was they should apply for a conditional use permit.
And a conditional use permit under the Frederick County code is for an event facility.
Which I think of an event facility.
I think of an improved.
See if I can move this closer.
I think of an approved facility that's made especially for events.
But what the layman's actually have is an old barn.
A very old barn that doesn't have any air conditioner.
Doesn't have any heat in it.
And they weren't trying to start an event facility.
What they wanted to do was to use their farm in a way to generate more revenue.
So the layman's can maintain that property as a farm.
And preserve the world character where they live.
And that.
Getting on that track with a CUP.
I think I got the layman's and got the planning commission and the board of supervisors.
Looking at this whole place.
In a way that perhaps it shouldn't have been forced to be in that pigeon hole.
What the layman's are here asking tonight is to do what they did last year.
When the permit was granted and the permit that was granted the year before.
And that is to have a few events.
At this barn.
This unimproved barn.
And they can charge money and make a little bit of money on it because as we all know.
It's tough farming these days.
It's not as easy to make money being a farmer in Frederick County as it used to be.
And people are doing other things now to try to generate money when they're agricultural properties.
We know from the comprehensive plan and other statements made by this board.
That it is.
A stated intention of Frederick County to preserve the world character of our county.
And in order to do that.
Farmers are going to have to be able to make money using their farms.
And this is one of those ways.
I understand from discussions I've had with staff and a number of members of the board of supervisors.
That one of the ways to encourage that is a consideration.
Re-consideration of the RAA zoning ordinance to allow.
Working farms such as the layman's farm, wavelength farm.
To buy right have events such as the ones that the layman's are asking tonight to obtain a permit for.
And in that context, this permit that's before you this evening.
It's a permit of an applicant that's proven that they can hold events there without any issues with their neighbors.
All of their joining neighbors have been chemist.
Not one of them has a complaint.
Nobody has filed a complaint about any of the events that have occurred there so far.
And they're asking to do this again.
The only reason why they're here doing this tonight is because, unfortunately.
The layman's were given to understand at the end of last year that the board of supervisors would be considering a change to the RAA ordinance,
which would allow by right use for events such as this.
They were waiting for that to happen.
In fact, I was engaged to monitor the ordinance amendment process to make sure that was going forward.
For one reason or another, I've been given an understanding that that's been deprioritized and it hasn't been taken up by the board yet.
And probably will not be until sometime later this year.
They were trying to hang on to see if that was going to get past.
So they wouldn't have to come and make another application for permit.
But they've had a number of inquiries from people who want to have events there.
They took their website down when they got the notice of violation last year and they stopped marketing the place.
Yet people still come to them asking them to have events.
They felt compelled to come forward and get a festival permit and instead of just getting it for a few events,
they had some people come and specifically request what they've decided to do now is to go ahead and make it a 12 month permit.
So they won't have to keep making application.
They will still be, as you know, obligated to report to the Foreign Rescue and the Sheriff's Office and all that seven days prior to any events they would have.
But by all objective measures, it would seem that this application is ripe for approval.
However, in my discussions with some members of the Board of Supervisors and my review of what occurred in the previous hearings with the layman's.
There seems to be some kind of notion that the layman's intentionally floated the authority of the county when they had this wedding.
That occurred last year when they got the violation for it.
I actually think the violation was actually for two events.
One was a wedding that they were paid for.
The other was the layman's family reunion, which I do believe they have the right to do that without having to get a festival permit in Frederick County.
But that was one of the two things that occurred that got them in the trouble last year.
And I can assure you that the layman's were relying on advice that they received from their engineer and their legal counsel.
And a member of the Board of Supervisors in determining whether or not they should have that event and it was not good advice.
They acknowledge that.
And it is unfortunate.
But it was not an intentional flagrant act in defiance of the county's ordinances.
It was an unfortunate misunderstanding.
And I'm here tonight to ask you to please.
When you consider this application.
Don't let personal feelings about a misunderstanding be what determines the decision making.
It should be what you're what I understand you're here to do.
And that's to represent the best interests of the citizens of Frederick County.
And I believe it is in the best interests of the citizens of Frederick County to approve this permit.
Because it'll allow the layman's to monetize their form and preserve that rural character that we've.
We all so strongly value here in Frederick County.
But also is going to enable the hiring of caterers.
The Board of John people.
The sheriff's deputies who get to work overtime to do this.
The DJs that will be there for the weddings.
It's going to bring people in from out of town.
It will spend money in our county.
It is a good thing for our county to have these things.
I think everybody agrees with and I urge you to please approve this application.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Any questions?
Any questions?
Any questions?
Mr. Patler.
Anyone?
Yes sir.
Mr. Patler.
Quickly when someone's asked to change their mind on a decision that's been made prior.
There's some circumstances that have changed that might warrant a change in decision or there's some.
Information that's been provided that the decision maker wasn't aware of.
Are there any circumstances to your knowledge that have changed from the time the CUP was applied for to this date?
This has nothing to do with all due respect to supervisor McCarthy.
This has nothing to do with the CUP.
The CUP application was for an events facility that was running traffic through the Apple Bank sub division,
which bogged down the discussion about that.
This application doesn't route traffic through the sub division.
It is for a festival permit and not a CUP application.
So Mr. Patler, would you answer my question please?
I don't believe.
If your question is, is anything changed with regard to the CUP application?
There is no CUP.
No sir.
My question was, have the circumstances as far as putting on these events change in some way from the time of the denial of the CUP for today.
And in my opinion, it does have an impact because during the CUP discussion, a question was brought up as whether or not V dot had given there go ahead or there okay with their driveway.
We are told no.
So my question has had there been any changes in circumstances from the time that the CUP was denied to today, which would warrant a different decision in this application versus the decision in the CUP request.
You talk about circumstances with regard to an approval by V dot?
No sir.
Any difference in circumstances?
The difference in how the festivals are being held, entrances being used, or are we basically looking at the same scenario here is just that you're classifying it as this is a festival permit request versus the CUP.
I think that is a distinction that is so substantial that you can't be ignored.
The requirements for the CUP require agency review of various aspects of that long term more impactful use of the property than is what is contemplated under a festival permit.
The layman are not seeking to sort an event facility and to have a designated parking area and have a V dot commercial entrance onto the form.
That is not what they're intending to do.
What they're intending to do now and what I think they were intending to do then but didn't get translated very well is to use their existing form and the existing set up they have right now to do what they have been doing and have been approved to do and approve and that they can do responsibly.
Through a festival permit for an occasional use to have events there.
So I'm having a hard time understanding what circumstances that you would like to compare between now and then so that I could respond to your question.
So for instance has we got given approval to their driveway entrance has the owner of the neighboring property across which they report to have an easement agreed to allow them to use that interest.
Are there any changes?
They are not using that entrance as part of this festival permit application they are not using the easement from the wavelength farm property.
Into the Apple Bank subdivision that is not part of this application how about the V dot.
V dot is no there's nothing for V dot to approve in this application.
Okay.
The questions of Mr. Patler anyone.
Mr. Roserdon.
Mr. Miller.
Here.
So.
I can hear you.
We'll work this out.
One of the issues that was raised I thought in the CEP application for.
For August was the concern to coming from Steven steady and going over that hill and making that immediate left into the farm.
So.
We don't have some issues with that and that's why the alternative.
Entrance was being proposed.
So I thought there were some issues to be done.
I know you're trying to address them through the use of a.
A sheriff's deputy, but I thought that was one of the issues.
I remember trying to save was there an alternate between that and.
The rink of property as a third option and at the time we were not able to figure that out.
I've heard.
That is true.
I understand it as part of the review process and the CUP.
However, what what they've done and what they did do for all the events that they've had.
Is they have the sheriff's deputies go out.
They pay they hire the sheriff's deputies off duty deputies to do traffic control.
They've had zero complaints and zero incidents or issues as a result of that.
And that's exactly what they've intend to do and continue to do under this permit.
I'm sorry.
I could try and help with this discussion maybe.
The CUP process because it is a.
Potentially permanent use has a higher threshold and a more stringent and.
Involve review.
With a festival permit typically we require.
Some indication of how they're going to address attendance.
Traffic.
Health and safety, but we don't require a V dot review.
So they're.
And again, typically with the festival permitted someone holding an event or a handful of events versus.
A permanent you so there there is a different threshold of review and scrutiny with the two.
Various types of applications of that's helpful.
Yeah, other questions of Mr. Pollard.
Chairman, I don't have any questions.
Mr. Petter, however, I do have one of mislamin one he's complete.
After the public.
Third and that work.
Sir, thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Pollard.
Thank you, sir.
This is a public hearing.
Would anyone like to comment concerning this proposed festival permit.
If you could come forward.
Sure, your name.
Magistral district and attempt to limit your comments to three minutes or less.
Please, sir.
Welcome.
I'm Chris Falver. I'm from Shawnee district.
I recently purchased a lot for business.
I run a construction company in the Apple banks.
And I just wanted you now.
I have no issues with wedding venue.
It's a great venue.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir.
My name is Cole.
I live.
Can you hear me?
Here we go.
Hi.
My name is Coleen Becky.
I live in pain or hell.
So I live right next to the farm.
And I can actually see it from my backyard.
And when I first discovered they were having events.
I was very excited.
I'm one of the people that asked for this summer.
My son is graduating from the eighth grade.
And so he's inviting about 60 of his buddies to go to the farm.
Have a little DJ.
Have a moon bounce.
So it's not just weddings.
Kids get to do it adults.
I think it's a great.
I have never heard any noises.
I've never heard any of the neighbors complain about it.
Nine and a ten when we see the tents come up.
We're always wondering, oh, everybody's outside looking just to see.
What parties going on?
I lived in DC for 20 years of my life where there was always communities.
We never had a big yard.
So we were always come.
Little townhouses stacked up or condos.
So we always had centers where you had to have parties.
And now as Stephen C. Cros.
And there's more single family homes coming up.
Which have kids.
This is a great place where at least I know for myself is that I get to have a party.
My son gets to invite all his buddies.
It's not far from my house.
So traveling back and forth.
The road is a bit of a problem.
But for the fact they're getting police officers to contract to make sure traffic flows perfectly.
I don't see where any of that would cause a problem.
Just even having my kids catching the bus sometimes going down the road in the morning.
People fly.
So do you have the police there?
Even if V dot except saying the turning is not turning.
You still need police presence there.
People fly on marble road.
So V dot or no V dot.
Police presence needs to be there if traffic is going in and out.
And I think the way they're doing it is perfect.
I just love the idea.
And again, I have my sons.
I hope to have my sons eighth grade party there.
It's 60 of the kids from Stephen City are going to be jumping on a moon bounce.
Having a little DJ and Kooten and Hallearing before they got high school.
So I hope you please pass this.
And I know I'm sure other people in the neighborhood would
wouldn't have a problem either.
I've never heard a complaint at all.
And we're always outside.
Our dogs are outside.
It's a wonderful neighborhood and what they're doing is just promoting growth.
And I'm for it.
So thank you.
Thank you.
Mr. Ranger.
Dean and Mr. Chairman members of the board.
I'm deadly.
We're going to start to over.
Yes.
We're sorry sir.
I'm deadly ranger manager.
Ranger properties in Applebank south and back creek district.
We we have been opposed to the events center and festival permit from the beginning.
We're still opposed to it for the same reasons.
Noise litter trash.
Devaluation or property.
With the events center CUP cloud.
Over over Applebank south.
We had little interest in the lots.
So with the August the now the CUP.
We sold two lots that are planned to break ground in the spring.
For the safety for safety.
The V dot is requiring a deputy to be hosted at the top of the hill of their entrances.
At least to us under the CUP.
Now maybe they just don't care.
But they sit on our property running the motor.
The heat effects are grass.
We may maintain as long.
They're there.
They're event hours.
Or listed as 11 to 10 30 in night.
The deputy is posted for only a few hours.
For the safety of the event attendees.
As well as the events stay up.
And the normal traffic on marble road.
Traffic.
Shouldn't the deputy be posted for the entire period.
They say they want this because it's far.
According to tax map, it's 24 acres.
Or the track where the barn and the house is.
Take that off.
It's 20 acres.
You're not going to run many cows.
And I'm going to make much money off of 20 acres.
Even if you do the event center.
It's just it's our met.
And that's all it is.
Um.
Now granting this 12 month festival permit.
You'll be giving them a 12 month CUP.
They get have hundreds of events.
It's it's open.
And I asked you to uphold your August 14th decision.
To deny the CUP and her uphold that decision.
Of denying the CUP by denying this 12 month festival permit.
Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Faster.
That's the key.
County district.
I drive by this property all the time.
Every single day go buy it.
My view on this is living that live.
They want to make an earning.
They're going to pay you taxes.
I don't see a bad part about this.
The road.
We in the back area.
Our roads are not great.
I accept that and that's what we do.
But the problem that we think about is they're going to be bringing your revenue.
And they're going to be making the place a better place.
Okay.
If they have a trash.
That's on their head.
They can get penalized for that.
That's a no-brainer, but if we're talking about V dot, I'm not too sure how V dot's going to be involved.
Their driveway is wide, it's wider than mine.
It's not a problem.
And that thing is 2,300 feet of gravel road, or it's been paved over.
There is no problems from what I see.
And I go on this road daily.
So when you go to take this, okay, it has been mistakes been made.
I don't know what's happened, but from what they are saying, okay, they screwed up.
Everybody screws up once in a while.
They're not trying to tick you off.
They are trying to make a living.
So I would honestly ask you to look at it and say, okay, this should be good for us.
And it's going to be good for them.
So any time that you can make somebody live a little bit better, and it's going to make you,
your lives a little bit better, too.
I'll be a dome scratcher if you would say no to this.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you, sir.
Anyone else?
Yes, sir.
Amen.
And I'll tell my name's Paul Schmidt to be honest.
I'm not familiar with what district I live in, as well.
I have been a tindi to multiple events here.
One of them being a local high school reunion for Shrando high school held at
Waverland Farm.
I'm a little confused with some of the information as well.
So has there been an approval of a festival permit since the denial of the CUP?
And answer your question, sir, but we'll get you answers after the meeting.
Okay, to my understanding there has been, so I would like to ask the question,
what is there any change of requirements in a festival permit since the last
approval of a festival permit?
Ask all you'd like, but we can't answer them.
That's okay.
Those are just things to think about.
I would be happy to Mr. Chair and on the far end.
Raise your hand.
Mr. Chair and can answer your questions for you.
Well, those of those addressed and I think they're very important to what happened
here.
And it's great to see someone that wants to bring someone something so great to the community,
especially as a high school.
I know there's been more than one reunion there.
And I know it's a wonderful thing to contribute and get to go there and see such a beautiful
form and all barn and participate in both events.
I've been to, they seem to be much less than a hundred people there.
It seems to be well organized, parking.
They have employee different.
They've had caterers, the rental of equipment and multiple other things that have contributed
to the community.
So I just hope that you get the chance to approve something else that will contribute to this
community.
Thank you, sir.
Is there anyone else?
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
Mr. Ewing.
is adjacent to the Rinker Farm subdivision that was approved by the board years ago.
With very close proximity of this event center, most lots in this Rinker subdivision would
be adversely affected from noise and traffic.
And the owners would not be afforded the pleasure and enjoyment of their property that
they so seek.
The sale of building building lots in this subdivision would also be adversely affected.
Most likely requiring a reduction in price.
This development has been dormant however with the much improved economy.
The Rinker family is now selling lots and they don't deserve the hardships and handicaps
that would be placed upon them with the approval of this permit.
An additional item in the CUP is that the traditional use permit should be only a
provide for adequate roads, facilities, and safe access to be provided.
The major consideration should be given to this section.
Most of you are aware of the road conditions at the entrance.
I'm no traffic expert, but I'm not sure even with police assistance.
This entrance would be safe.
There are also two major questions that I think need to be responded to, not by you all.
Is this the right place for an event center?
I don't believe it is.
Also, is it okay to allow someone to make a profit from their business at the expense
of their neighbors?
Mr. Rinker has been very generous in the past on personal, allowing the waiver to farm
a family's access through his property because of the dangerous intersection.
Now to acquire him to sacrifice planned income from the development of his subdivision,
so maneuver can financially benefit his too much to ask of him.
This is what I see happening with the approval of this permit.
So I'm strongly requesting that you vote no to this permit request.
I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Board members for your time, and especially thank
you for your commitment to the community and thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
Good evening.
I'm Scott Carlson from the back Creek District.
Our total 31st we closed on Lot 3 in Apple Bank, South.
We had been looking at that property for quite some time, but we were under the understanding
that there was this conditional use permit that was hanging out there and it kind of kept
us from really pursuing moving forward with the lots.
The realtor that we have been working with for the last couple of years is we were looking
at different properties to ultimately build on, told us that as of August 14th, the conditional
use permit had been denied and that it would not be coming back up again.
So we moved forward with purchasing the lot with the intention of building a home that
we intend to reside on.
Now we're hearing that this, it's not a conditional use permit, but it's basically the
same type of permit that's being sought.
As I was looking through some of the paperwork, they are intending to book as many events
as they possibly can during the months that they can book events when the weather is accommodating.
So they could potentially have something going on every single weekend.
But I know that I would not have purchased that lot because I do not want to live there
with that much traffic and that much noise with events that are going from 10 a.m.
potentially tell 10 o'clock PM or later, some of the paperwork that I looked at in the
application said events had to end at midnight.
So you could potentially have 160 vehicles coming out of that property at midnight and I'm
living right next to it.
So when we talk about revenue and the potential of earned revenue, the property value,
I believe it's going to be decreased with passing that festival permit.
And I think the loss income in not having homes built on that property and the property
tax that would be garnered from homes built there is going to far be a much greater loss
to of revenue to the county than what's going to be gained by this permit being passed.
So I appreciate I appreciate your consideration in that.
Thank you sir.
Anyone else who would like to speak concerning this application?
Anyone at all?
Anyone?
Let's call.
All right, we'll close the public hearing portion of the meeting.
Ms. Layman, if you'd like an opportunity to address any of the concerns you've heard, you're
welcome to do that.
I guess for sirs, did you have a question for me or should I address?
I do have a couple of questions that I think when we're done, I have a PowerPoint presentation.
I'd like to share the board as well, but just a question.
Do you have you ever had a complaint for trash or noise from any of your neighbors?
No, we have not.
You have not.
Are there any homes under construction presently has there been any ground broken in the
subdivision at all?
No, there has not.
There is not.
How many events do you have planned or do you anticipate being at this event center?
If this if this permit is granted?
Should the permit be granted?
We have the three events that you saw listed.
And then potentially we've had people reach out for four weekends in the fall.
Right now you have up to seven events that you are aware of.
Correct.
Thank you.
That's all my questions.
House of questions, Ms. Layman.
Is there anything else you'd like to add?
I guess my only thing I'd like to add is this is not a CUP.
You know, we're not, that's not what this application is.
You know, like Mr. Tierney was saying, they are different applications, the CUP is obviously
more permanent.
So I can completely understand where the concerns are coming from.
The festival permit is a yearly thing.
So obviously next year if we want to continue down this route, we're going to have to come
back here and have the same discussion.
So I guess I just want to make sure that that clarity is made that, you know, this isn't
a permanent thing.
This is only for this year and as, you know, my supervisor mentioned, you know, at this
point, there are no houses that are in the process of being built.
The ground has not been broken.
So I'll say to that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
You may.
Thank you, Mr. Tierney.
Thank you, Mr. Tierney.
There's a point that I think is important that I don't know if all the members of the Board
of Supervisors are aware of this.
There's, there's been a lot of discussion about Mr. Rinker and his subdivision.
But I want to make sure the Board is aware that Mr. Rinker sold a lot to the layman's
lot, six in the Apple Bank subdivision at a price that incorporated consideration for the
grant of an easement by Mr. Rinker.
Mr. Rinker was paid for, sold and paid for an easement and a lot to the layman's to
insulate the subdivision from the farm.
So the layman's lot, six is the lot that's the closest to the barn.
The day bought in Mr. Rinker granted them the easement to use the road, which they're
not using in this application.
Mr. Rinker has made some money off the layman's and the layman's ability to have events
there to help pay for that.
So I want to make sure everybody's aware of that when they put the comments that you've heard
into context.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
SPAC CREAK Mr. Chairman, if I may, I'd like to make a small presentation this evening.
I, just for the record, I have spoken, we're not on the door of every single landowner
that joins this property, it was a lengthy process.
I will tell you that every single landowner that I spoke with, because not everyone answered
the door, spoke favorably of this event facility other than, obviously, Mr. Rinker sharing
his concerns.
I have went by this facility when there were events going on and have also been by this
facility since then.
I have not seen the issues of trash.
The neighbors have not made any comments of noise.
In fact, most of the neighbors said that the noise was so minimal when they were outside
unless they would see the tents, they did not know that there was an event going on.
This is a view from the very front of the barn, if you were at the front of their center,
looking to the west, as you can see, there's not many people there, if you'll slide it.
This is the frontal view, it was very cold that they saw a apologize, you're looking over
the front of my core.
That front lot that you are actually looking at there is owned by the laments.
So the thought process that the Rinker properties would be immediately impacted while
they will likely be a little bit of noise.
That lot that you're looking at there is actually owned by the laments to minimize the
noise and minimize any impact of trash or anything from the general area.
The homes that you see out there in the distance are actually some of the closest neighbors
to that property and as you see, they are high in homes.
I'm not on the door of every one of those homes that you see in that picture and I can promise
you I've had not one negative comments from any of the folks who live in those homes.
In fact, most of those, I think the one lady in the back, she's raising her hand, was one
of the ladies I spoke to and they were very, all were very favorable of how the laments
have carried themselves, how they have acted during these events and how they have tried
to be respectful of their neighbors if you go to the next slide.
This is the cul-de-sac where the laments have their purchased access.
We as a board in my opinion are not to make a decision on what was going through Mr. Rinker's
mind or what was going through the laments mind when the access to this road was purchased.
However, this permit, Festival Permit, does not include utilizing Mr. Rinker's property
in any format, so I think that that is a non-starter, but just to put things in perspective,
this cul-de-sac here is where the laments land starts, as far as this roadway is the
furthest north that the Rinker property, the roadway is.
It is a long distance from that roadway to the barn as you can see there in that picture.
I cannot in any format gather or believe that there would be a significant noise issue
at that distance from a lot for you or other lots.
If this was a CUPA application where this was a permanent fix that we could not go back
a year from now and say, okay, it's an issue, but for 12 months there's not been any land
disturbed.
Let's give these folks an opportunity, in my opinion, to work out their differences with
their entranceway with their neighbors.
There has been some movement, they have done some work there to try to make some other
options available to them, so I just wanted to put in perspective a little bit for you
folks, what we're looking at here, thank you very much for that folks.
So on that note, I would like to make a motion that we approve the Wavelin Farm Outdoors
Festival Permette as has been presented.
Or, the motion is there, second.
Second, is there an indiscution?
Anyone?
Supervisor Grayward.
Hi.
Supervisor Dunn.
Hey.
Supervisor Wells.
Hi.
Supervisor Slotter.
Supervisor McCarthy.
Supervisor Fisher.
Hi.
Chair votes aye.
Motion carries.
The outdoor festival permit is granted.
That will bring us to public hearing, ordinance amendments, Mr. Roddy Sir.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Members of the Board of Supervisors.
What we have in front of us here now is an ordinance amendment dealing with telecommunication
facilities, the commercial telecommunication facilities.
Back in December of 2019, of course, the Board adopted proposed changes to the telecommunication
facilities dealing with these commercial structures to create a two-track process.
That two-track process enabled for the administrative review and approval facilities, while
maintaining the second step of the process and that is the conditional use permit for
those facilities above 50 feet.
Now, following the approval of the proposed amendment, the Board of Supervisors direct
and staff to draft a subsequent amendment, which would further allow commercial telecommunications
up to 100 feet in height by right in certain areas of the county.
Now the purpose of the amendment that you have in front of you this evening is to do just
that, and that's to enable telecommunication structures up to 100 feet in height by right
in areas of the county, west of Interstate 81.
Again, all of the other requirements that came as part of the proposal for communication
facilities remain in place with one edition for those facilities that are west of
Interstate 81.
Of course, this is Frederick County and the apologised that the colors didn't come out
quite on the map correctly.
However, just to illustrate again that within the county, of course, Interstate 81 is
in this general location and the application of the ordinance, west of 81, would include
the whole of the back creek district, the whole of the Gainesbury district, and a portion
of the Stonewall district, of course, west of Interstate 81.
Excuse me.
Many commission discuss this at their January 15 meeting at a lengthy public hearing.
They recommended denial of the proposed amendment.
So following a public hearing here this evening, staff would be seeking a determination
from the Board of Supervisors on the proposed amendment that you have, of course, a
party or package, which would enable telecommunication facilities up to 100 feet to be
it allowed, as part of the administrative review process.
Be happy to answer any questions that the Board of Supervisors may have at this time.
Questions of Mr. Ruddy, anyone?
Anyone?
Thank you, sir.
Thank you.
Says a public hearing?
Anyone like to speak concerning this application?
This is the tower discussion.
Okay.
We'll start with those who signed up, but we'll give everyone an opportunity.
Tammy McDonald.
Welcome, Ms. McDonald.
Yes, just pull it down.
There you go.
First off, I'd like to say, I'm very pleased to meet all of you.
My family's had a business in Gainesboro area for over 40 years.
My father passed away in 2018, and he thought to roll to all of y'all, and you always
worked with everybody.
So I just want to read a small statement.
It should only be about two minutes.
My name is Tammy Halsley McDonald.
I'm from the Back Creek area.
I was born and raised in the Back Creek area of Frederick County.
My father opened an auction in Salar Gainesboro area over 40 years ago.
All my family, many family members still live in the area.
Today, we use slow wireless internet.
They charge $10 for every gigabyte over your plan.
Their service is really bad, and you can not have Netflix or Hulu.
You can not stream or download anything.
My brother also has an auction in the same area that he's been there over well over 30
years, and we meet people, a couple hundred people that attend weekly, and I can promise
you the people that attend our auctions from this area that I personally spoke to and would
be happy to sign, would be happy to sign to have this better internet service, and
sorry, I'm nervous.
As a property owner of 11 acres in Frederick County, Back Creek area, I can tell you there
are hardwood trees that are way over 50 feet tall, a 50 foot tire would not work.
There is talk from builders and values on their homes.
There are already many of them already, towers regardless.
Why not these towers?
I'm sorry.
I'm not very good at speaking, but I just wanted to get my point across.
This is not about the dollar figure from builders.
This is about the people that do without what everyone else has.
I can tell you as a property owner, my home would be more valuable with the broadband
high speed internet.
I want to grocery shop from home, make doctors appointments download important files,
and I want to video chat with my grandson who just joined the Air Force.
Please please realize how important this is to so many, and as a lifelong person of Frederick
County, I ask that you please allow the towers higher than 50 foot.
You are more than welcome to place the tower in my backyard.
Maybe one person standing here, but I speak for many.
Thank you for your time.
You.
Don Owens.
Chairman, members of board.
I'm John Owens, back Creek District.
As was mentioned at the very beginning, this had come before the Planning Commission.
They recommended Denowl, this committee, as Mr. McCarty, when he first brought this
up in December, he stated West of 81, which sort of throws me back to my history when
everything was West of the Blue Ridge, like everything is out in the walls.
West of 81 is not in the walls.
There are lots of communities there.
I don't think the people in either of the districts want a tower that is a 100 feet tall
beside them, which would be allowable by this amendment.
I am not against 100 foot tires, but there are certain places they should be placed.
We're not right smack dab in the middle of a community, you know, development of homes
or 50 feet from a house.
If you're going to build one of these tires, it should be a CUP.
You should not take the right away from the citizens of that area to have their say.
I don't remember having to say on the 50 foot.
You know, it went by me, but I did not see that in the paper, I tried to keep up on that.
It is not right to go in and build one of these tires with no permits, nothing.
And then come back later in a plow for a permit for a ham operator.
That's not the purpose of this.
Not ham operators.
My understanding is once that tire is up, you get a permit to put it up for a ham operator.
You can stick anything on that tire you want.
You're getting by the regulations simply because, hey, tires up there.
It was never inspected and there is one like that in the back creek district.
It was never inspected.
They never had a permit until it was built.
Now, that is not the way you should do business.
If you're going to do something like that, you should before you even build it, talk to the people in the community, get their opinions.
There was no knock on my door.
If it is 100 feet or if it is 99 feet, does that mean there is going to be a blinking light on top of it?
So, you know, there are places for that.
And I hope that you did not have this.
Thank you.
Stameless.
Gentlemen, excuse me, board members, my name is Tom Stamuelos and I'm a resident of back creek district.
I moved from rest in to Frederick County in June 2018.
Moving here, I left my employer and in January 2019, I started my own firm, specializing in helping small and medium businesses address their cybersecurity and cyber risk challenges.
I knew that I would not have access to files as I did in rest in, but having access to high speed internet was a requirement in order to work from my home office and conduct video calls with my clients located in Virginia in the surrounding states.
Where I am located in back creek, the only internet available is through a wireless provider.
And without that provider, I would not have been able to purchase our home where it is located.
In addition to starting my firm, I am active in the top of Virginia Regional Chamber, and I am currently a co-chair on the public policy committee and a co-chair on the technology coalition.
I was also accepted and am a student with the 2020 Community Leadership Program.
I'm not here to speak on behalf of the Chamber or the Leadership Program, but from the experience I've gained as a member and participant in these groups.
I, like many others, have moved to Frederick County to have a better quality of life.
The Shenandoah Valley has been recognized in several surveys as a great place to live, work, and start a business.
And I'm going topic in these committees and monthly sessions during our community leadership events is how can we make for a county more competitive in appealing to businesses.
Not just businesses, but companies that provide higher paying wages.
These wages discussed are not going to come from distribution or manufacturing jobs.
They are going to come from high tech companies.
As a technologist, I'm aware of the latest technologies and industry advances.
These achievements have made it possible for professionals to live just about anywhere, and have that work life balance that we all strive for.
However, one key element that is nibble and affordable high speed internet.
Without this access, we make our community less desirable to professionals up the same quality of life.
A chief house bill 1258 passed in 2018 was put in place to close a loophole in the 2017 legislature.
Which addressed new or accommodate small sell, not necessarily wireless internet.
Unlike sell signals, wireless internet requires line of sight, and with tree lines in back creek alone between 80 and 100 feet, the current ordinance is not enough.
While researching this topic, I discovered a 2013 broadband study commissioned by the Frederick County Board of Supervisors technology through a grant.
As a new resident, I'm not sure if any of you on the board today were members of the board in 2013 and are even aware of this study.
But some of the goals were broadband options for all citizens to support telecommuting and enhanced educational opportunities.
Quality health care through telehealth and overall improved quality offensive comprehensive and well written.
CIT identified several gaps in the implications and even proposed where new cows could be installed.
In all, they provided 10 recommendations that do not appear to have been implemented at this time.
Some key recommendations I believe would provide value to community are ensure broadband friendly environment, partner with incumbent providers with a fixed wireless provider.
Based off my research in the discovery of this broadband study, I asked the board to approve the proposed amendment to the ordinance which would allow for broadband and small sell tower facilities up to a height of 150 feet by right.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Angela Bean.
The evening, my name is Angela Bean and I am the Gainesboro District and I'll fill my family, my colleagues.
I come to you with a problem.
The problem is the internet service that I endure in my home.
I am a teacher. I am a parent and I am a small business owner.
And with all three of those, I'm presented with multiple problems that I cannot handle myself and I cannot correct myself because I simply do not have the internet to do the things that I need to do.
I am unable to put my grades on at home.
I cannot load my grades. I cannot work in my docs. I can go parents. The parents cannot email me. I cannot communicate with my students.
I have to put in an extra, at least, hour and a half of my time every day at school, we are going to McDonald's so that I can have signal to do my job so that I can pay my bills.
Secondly, I have a daughter who is in college. They don't make books anymore. They are on the computer.
And she is also a small business owner. She is a photographer. I don't know if you are familiar with how much internet you have. She cannot put the pictures on. She cannot take the pictures off.
She cannot send them to pickables. She cannot receive applications. She cannot receive her paychecks. She cannot do anything because she doesn't have signal. She sits there in cries.
We are like, okay, everybody turn off your phone. Do you have signal? Go sit in the hot chair. You know, that's the one by the window.
That's just two of the problems. And then for myself as a business owner, I cannot pay my taxes online. I cannot pay my bills online. I cannot receive and send in emails.
It just continues and continues. I've taught for 30 years. I've lived on Apple Pirage for 30 years. They promised me cable 29 years ago.
We have one server that provides for our area. They're trying. I just paid another $45 a month on a teacher's salary so that I can possibly have signals.
So that I can possibly do the work that I need to do. And it's still my remember and we won't even say anything about who low and Wi-Fi and internet and all that other fun stuff because who has time to do that?
When I'm spending all my time trying to make up the time that I couldn't do when I had the time because I still don't have the internet.
So with that being said, please help me. As you can see, it is stressful. I need to do my job. I don't want to spend any more time at school. I'd like to come home and do the things that I need to do with my family.
While my daughters doing her business in our home that we pay for with our taxes from our business that we pay for with more taxes.
So please, I beg of you. Help us build a tower that can solve our problems and make my life just a little bit easier. Thank you for your time.
Thank you.
Robert, have you been there?
It's a chairman.
Members of the board. My name is Norbert O'Bernaveu and I live in the Stonewell district.
Where we leave, there is no internet service from any of the Verizon or Comcast providers.
As they don't have the investment or they have an invest in the infrastructure needed.
There are only two local providers with wireless technology that relies as I have learned of good line of sites between towers and receivers.
I have learned quite a bit about it when new foliage in trees start blocking my signal and we have to move the antennas and do a lot of things.
The internet service for us is very important. My wife, the lake of youths from home several days a week, saving gas, saving road use, saving time.
Also, it means for us source of income because her job depends on internet access and good internet access.
And more than entertainment also we use the internet for professional stories and professional development.
Having as you can see internet broadband is in this pensable right now is not just a luxury, but it's an necessity for many of us.
I came here tonight to speak in favor of the modification to the ordinance allowing 100 feet high.
In communications and tennis by right west of 181 and to request your support to the modification. Thank you.
Thank you sir.
Brad blaze.
Welcome sir.
Good evening, Aaron and we're the supervisors members. My name is Brad blaze. I'm in Gainesboro district.
I've lived in the county for about 20 years. I've been lucky to live on the western side of the county for the last 15 years.
And environmental engineer environmental consultant by trade recently quit my job to start my own company literally two weeks ago.
The last four years. I've worked for a technology company that manufactured and sells software to do air missions monitoring.
I was lucky enough to get offered a work at home position the last four years.
I've worked out of a home office. I'm lucky that my residence is on a hill. I'm able to receive a high speed broadband even all the way out near Gore Virginia where I live or I live.
I'm concerned that the you know the way the current amendment or the current ordinances is worded with the 50 foot towers that's not going to be enough to maintain the high speed internet and reliable signal that people need in our community to be able to work at home.
To be able to have our home business like I just started. You know I'd like to be able to see other people do this to avoid the long commute into the DC area to avoid burning all that gas and wasting all that time and you know time away from home.
I think it's very important that this amendment to the ordinance get passed.
If you look at some of the transmission lines and some of the towers that run through the county versus 50 foot tower. I think it's a reasonable amendment and it will really help the county.
I continue to you know develop some of these home businesses and and keep people employed with good high paying jobs.
I wish you would support this amendment and look forward to having other options for internet and the county. Thank you. Thank you sir.
Pat Ponsette.
Welcome sir.
My name is Matt Ponsette. I'm in the Gainesburg district just a couple of points for tonight. I'm in favor of the hundred foot towers.
As the other speakers before me said very eloquently there's a need for broadband high speed broadband and a need to get it in a reliable manner.
We currently don't have that where we live we're just on in frog hollow off an apple pie rich.
For instance we're we're service by clear book the Verizon tower and I can really only get a call out of my place in two seasons and that is fall and winter so right now you can call me but don't try to call me an August.
As far as the wireless goes we do have wireless will be hard but we need better wireless. There's just too much data we're moving around and the all the reasons mentioned tonight really support that.
So I am personally in favor of the modification to the ordinance or the amendment the amendment to the ordinance.
But I like to add a couple of things at any tower that we consider over a hundred feet that we do with proper planning and permitting within and that's within your room.
And that goes in for appearance and for safety and also for tower height we do have high trees out there.
And sometimes a hundred foot tower will make it but sometimes we're going to have a taller tower maybe a hundred and thirty hundred and forty foot.
So that whenever we go for building a new tower we really do a study based on a particular tower citing and customer service to ensure everybody gets the service they need and the tower really benefits the area.
That's all I have. Thank you very much.
Thank you sir.
Erin Hockman.
Hello.
I just want to tell you a little bit about myself. My name is Darren Hockman.
I'm a back-create district at one point I wanted internet.
Well, when I called Comcast up and asked him I need to have the internet at my house.
He says, well, we can't do that because they see execs has gone across your area.
Well, I asked him how much would it cost if I would go through there.
They said thirty thousand dollars.
That's not going to happen.
So I started the internet company.
But we need towers above a hundred feet because trees are above fifty feet.
And that's just not going to work.
And if some people are worried about what towers are going to look like that they're
Buying the area, whatever.
Like a round forty five tower is only seventeen inches wide.
What the legs going up with three legs are only two inches diameter.
So if you were to look from a distance you probably wouldn't even see it till someone pointed out to you.
And I just want to know just give a good quality internet to everybody around and
just because everyone needs to work.
More jorty people are working from home.
Kids are doing a lot of homework from that and they have to have internet.
So I just want to say thank you.
Yes, sir.
Out of mercy.
Welcome, sir.
Thank you Mr. Chairman, board members.
My name is Donnie Merseer.
I'm the back rig district representing Virginia networks.
Local wireless internet like Mr. Hockman said.
To bring that internet in there, the factor is the tree line.
I'm getting over that tree line as as many times as 100 feet.
You know, that will put us at a position to get the internet in there to reach it.
Now, for a second, I like to switch to Donnie Merseer.
That creek district outside of Virginia networks.
I'm an engineer that went into the military.
I came back to Fridge County and surrounding areas to be able to help the county that I grew up in,
you know, and contribute to what I can.
And I'm proud of that.
I did that with who I've worked in an engineering firms,
but being able to talk to families,
be an active coach with upward sports,
and doing tutoring outside with the schools.
Not being able to reach these kids when they're being set home.
Studies with tablets.
The teachers not being able to do what they came with the kids.
That affects us as the parents at home also.
So I just like to.
You guys are taking consideration.
The what little is going to be sacrificed for the major picture of the community to grow.
And and not only.
The height restriction being raised up.
It gives our community a chance to grow.
But it also gives local businesses a chance to come in and be a solution for the
problem and hand that we'll be made.
So thank you for your time.
Thank you sir.
Windor Bowman.
Welcome.
Hi.
Hi.
My name is Winter Bowman.
I'm with the.
That Creek district.
This is our son Anthony Bowman.
And I am in favor of the.
Additional height for access to internet.
For us, it is not a luxury.
My son, as you can tell, is differently abled than we are.
He is severely autistic.
And he's also nonverbal.
From the time he was 12 months old, we have gone through.
Speech therapy.
Trying to get him to communicate verbally.
Never worked.
We've tried sign language.
Didn't work.
We've tried a very popular means of communication.
Holdpacks, which is picture exchange communication system.
Did not work.
Well.
For the first time something has worked this year.
And it is a communication device that is used on the tablet.
And there is an app that's called Pro 2 Quo.
And.
It clicked.
He's able to communicate.
Which he is 11.5 years old.
He can't say mama.
But he can type in what he wants.
It's such a huge deal because something as simple as being in the community.
And have not being able to say where at the store.
Mama, I want that chocolate milk.
And I don't know what he wants.
He has a meltdown.
If you guys have never seen an autistic fit.
It is a meltdown on steroids where it less sometimes hours.
And I end up in tears.
Literally.
And without internet.
That happens at home.
You know, there are some days.
My husband is like what's going on.
And I have to tell him.
Saturday at 232 in the afternoon.
You tell me we have no clue.
Having him being able to communicate.
Is imperative.
Without reliable internet.
It's as if someone got gorilla glue.
And glued your lips shut.
And someone's trying to.
Talk to you and you know what you want to say.
But you have no way to get it out.
Um.
So for us.
Reliable internet is not.
A luxury.
It's not so.
My 13 year old can just play Fortnite.
Which.
I'll be honest he will.
Um, or my husband watching Netflix on some serial killer documentary.
Which he will.
Um.
Or the really.
So please for not just children like my son.
But other children.
Internet is essential.
Thank you all.
Wesley Hicks.
Good evening.
Lesslie Hicks for the county.
Um.
I'm the president of managed IT service provider for business in Northern Virginia.
We've used to fix wireless solutions for many of our clients over the years.
There was little or no.
My speed.
Internet service available.
These local businesses rely on these fixed wireless solutions.
And would be significantly affected.
If the 100 foot ordinance is not passed.
Uh.
Businesses like cargo and freight services.
CPA firms.
Uh.
Roofing contractors.
Wildlife rescue services.
Uh.
In my own business.
Um.
Several other of our business clients have also had.
That have coax high speed Internet.
Have expressed interest and also using these fixed wireless services.
As a redundant backup to their primary internet provider.
Uh, my, my company in particular.
Uh, would be impacted because myself and one of my engineers rely on this.
Exclusively to answer after hours calls.
Uh, emergency support calls.
These services are an necessity for us and many of our clients.
Without passing this 100 foot tower ordinance.
Uh, we along with other businesses will be seriously impacted or lose connectivity altogether.
I strongly urge you to pass the 100 foot ordinance.
As these services are making a tremendous difference in rural areas with the deficit of regular broadband services.
Back in the days when everybody had a land phone line.
Um, we never gave a thought to the telephone pole going up somewhere else or a new one going in.
Um, I don't see this as any different.
The signal must be that has to clear the trees.
Please pass this 100 foot ordinance so much.
So very much depends on it.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Park Bayless.
Welcome, sir.
Hi.
I'm a Winchester resident, but I own land in Shawnee land.
Closer.
Okay.
Thank you, sir.
Okay.
Um, first, uh, let me disclose him.
Um, I own a internet company and, uh, visual link and probably.
Anyway, it's been around just probably.
Some point has heard something about that.
But that's not, uh, what I'm here to speak about tonight.
Um, I am, um, also, uh, at the FCC, I am on the technical advisor council there.
Uh, I have served on, uh, I serve at the leisure of the chairman.
Um, and, uh, I've been on the broadband committee to broadband deployment committees.
Uh, the rule that the person, after the act of Congress and the 50 foot one, I was on that committee that wrote those regulations.
Not to wrote those recommendations that went to Congress.
Um, we've had, uh, worked on 84 rules that have been passed.
And three executive orders that we've, we've asked for five of we got three.
And what I want to say is that one of the things that the chairman and what we see at the FCC.
Broadband is an issue.
And it is a key issue.
It is one that is important to the United States.
Absolutely important to the United States to go through.
We've been trying to address it.
We have spent billions and billions of dollars.
We've written recommendations.
But when it comes down, where we found out where we have the problem that is stopping things from going is that the FCC and the federal government.
It can only do so much.
It comes down to the states and it comes down to the counties.
We can't know what needs to be done.
But when it comes down to the ordinances, we can only go so far at the federal level to get to the state and the county and to the cities.
And we've been, and I've been at numerous meetings that I've been sent to with congressional representatives and others and counties and meetings to talk.
And I hear the exact same thing that I'm hearing here all across the United States.
And it is, it is disheartening.
We live in a country that is supposedly the high-tech leader of the world.
And yet we can't supply broadband to our citizens.
It is absolutely essential that we have broadband to our citizens.
This, the way that the U.S. and the way the economy is working right now.
20% is what the loss of value to home is in the United States of a national association of realtors, we're not having.
And as we move forward, right now, the 911 emergency service of record.
And this is something that we're very worried about in flood following this a lot.
We have to see.
Is that the phone company aligns to go to your house right now that you're making, you can make your emergency calls from, right?
They're down to 2% of the households in the United States of fine lines.
That is costing a loss of deficit of $15 billion per year to the telcos.
Now, that the, so as soon as possible, you're going to see those lines go to legacy.
And as soon as the, and I don't want to get too technical, but as the 3GPP system comes in,
which will solve the problem of all these fake spoof phone calls you see.
When that comes in, that number of record and the 911 service will no longer be a landline service.
And I'm one emergency services will all be wireless services.
That will be the primary service record.
And the first net service will be what we time back into all the 911 emergency services, which AT&T has the contract on that one.
But right now, in people's houses, they, like the one woman who said, I've heard this numerous times in school teachers all across the country.
But most of the schools, if you go to most of them, and you've probably approved funding for blackboard or other types of resources through the school budgets.
Or a herd of it. And most of the students, and most of the teachers now are relying upon the students to turn in papers over the internet.
And things can, and you just cannot, you know, you've got a complete disadvantage.
And that's what we're seeing all across the United States students are disadvantaged.
They, they have to try and get resources and libraries and other types of free access to be able to go through.
And, and that's really hurting.
And the business is just like you're hearing people talk about now.
It's just, it continues to, we hear this constantly.
Internet, just like electricity, when electricity first started to come, the FCC was formed because of the rule electrification act.
We had farmers across.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
You'll need to conclude.
I will conclude you.
I will offer you an opportunity.
Yes.
Everyone is head.
Okay.
Okay.
All right.
In closing statement, 50 foot or 100 foot.
Right.
If you need to use your, with the house.
Whatever is necessary, if they need to get broadband at that residence, you shouldn't deny them the ability.
If, if it's, if it needs to be 50 foot if it is, houses in the, and the people who are deploying them are not going to spend extra money.
Put 100 foot tower to person's house.
If it needs to be 40 foot.
But if that person needs internet access, it needs to be 100 foot.
And they're going to spend it.
And I'm going to see 100 foot tower thrown up everywhere.
Because it's not cost effective.
So I vote that you guys, I, I'm not, I'm not, sorry.
I've been the two and you meeting counting.
But I'd ask that you would approve this amendment.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Cheryl Campbell.
Welcome.
Mr. Chairman members of the board.
My name is Cheryl Campbell.
I'm from the Bat Creek District.
So supervisor Graber and I spoke yesterday.
And I believe that he's on the right track towards a long-term solution to consistent broadband for role areas.
However, his ideas require studies and infrastructure which couldn't be implemented for several years.
The rolling hills in the very tall trees west of A81 make the western part of Frederick County very different from the portion east of it.
None of the big communication companies have shown a desire to overcome the problem because they prefer to focus on more of the high density population areas that provide a greater return on investment.
They have admitted the Mr. Graber that their current 4G systems require 150 to 200 foot towers to reach many rural areas.
That is not an investment they've chosen to pursue very far.
If Frederick County wishes to attract home businesses and people who work from home the county must address this issue effectively to keep the county competitive.
While the big communication companies may eventually be able to be a part of the solution as their technology progresses they're not currently focused on our own customers.
The immediate solution can be handled by allowing the small broadband companies already in the country in the county to pursue taller tower options.
These reliably surround the problems of the mature canopy of the trees.
So I realize that personal towers on personal property are not addressed in the ordinance which applies to commercial towers but is the slippery slope from commercial towers to personal towers.
Small broadband companies in the area often piggyback on personal towers with repeaters that allow neighbors to access the provider.
Small line of site broadband providers operate differently than the big communication companies.
The current ordinances tilt the plane field against the small providers.
I hope you will consider Mr. Graber's long-term ideas which we'll be talking about this evening.
But I understand that they don't do anything for rural customers right now or even in the immediate future.
So I urge you to vote yes on the ordinance amendment to allow for 100 foot tall towers by right in all areas west of the 81.
One member of my family couldn't be here tonight and that's because he's at home finishing his college degree online.
His school uses web proctor testing that allows him to run two home businesses while going to school.
This has only been possible because small internet providers care to connect rural for a draconie.
We don't get self coverage at our home.
We only receive sporadic online phone service and we couldn't get high speed internet services.
Both of our sons businesses rely on high speed internet with fast upload speeds.
The big providers wouldn't give us the time of day or try to solve our solutions or try to solve our problems.
But the small broadband companies did.
They need to be able to build cost efficient towers that aren't blocked by the trees.
So please vote yes to allow 100 foot towers by right west of 81.
Thank you.
Richard Copeland.
Welcome sir.
There may need to raise that a bit, Mr. Copeland.
Thank you sir.
Thank you very much.
Richard Copeland and I'm in the Gainesburg district and I'm a small business owner there and I have broadband service and I'm very happy to have it.
It's a wonderful thing because the big cable companies aren't out there and the satellite alternative doesn't work.
I've had it for three years and if the wind blows I lose my connection and if the snow comes down I lose the connection and if the their son spots I lose the connection and if my dog sneezes I lose the connection.
The only thing left is the wireless broadband.
So that runs my business and if I don't have it, I can't even run my cash registers.
I can't read the credit cards.
So I'll have to relocate out of Frederick County to someplace where I can get this kind of service.
I know right now the towers that are sending me signals have to be over 150 feet or we wouldn't even be having these discussions.
So all I'm asking for is please vote yes for the amendment and help us keep our business here help us attract more businesses to the west side of 81.
It's a wonderful place to live.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you sir.
Sam civil.
Welcome sir.
I'm Sam civilen from the at Creek.
Everyone else has already explained why internet is so important.
So my concern is these are smaller companies that are providing this and if it becomes more difficult or more expensive they may just go away.
They're not full with it or they pass that expense on to the customer and a lot of customers are lower income rural folks and so they just won't be able to obtain that.
Also I've spoken to some neighbors who were out of do a lot of work on the internet but my neighbors do and some of them have moved out here assuming there was high speed internet and they told me that if they knew there wasn't they probably wouldn't have moved out here.
I have a family member who's a health care provider recruiter and part of what she does is she'll talk to the doctors and other health care providers about the schools about the neighborhoods and part of what they want to know is their high speed internet or not and the if they want to live in a rural area because the hospital has some they provide health care and rural areas as well.
And so this is part of what she needs to be able to explain to them.
So that's so I'm in favor of the high towers.
Thank you sir.
That's all.
You want to also as come to speak to the tower discussion.
Anyone.
We could have your name and magical district, please sir.
This is not about internet.
This is not about the hundred foot towers.
This is about the process.
So by the McCarthy absolutely agree.
I live in back creek district three and a half miles from the Winchester City limits never will see internet.
So absolutely there's a lot of people that are not going to get internet unless you do something.
The way this is set up right now though by rights someone can come in and they can put a tower in there.
And your neighbors have no say.
I've sat in the meeting on January 15 when Shantel came in with the hundred foot 50 foot tower and I listened to at least the neighbors had a voice because of the CUP process.
That's the way to go.
Close the loopholes.
Don't allow people to go and put a tower in place because they can buy a house and just stick one there.
I don't live in that neighborhood.
I've seen what the gentleman's done.
I've been a visually customer from day one.
So this is nothing to do about the small businesses.
This is about the loopholes and how things are done and how they should be done properly.
And Mr. Chair and I have had this conversation about.
And you heard me say this before you before.
It's time for a comprehensive study.
It's time for us to get on them on the page here and do what we can for internet.
Absolutely.
There are a lot of people that cannot get internet.
But please take in a consideration right now.
If you approve this it's a loophole for people.
If you are going to approve this I'm going to ask one favor.
If someone's put up a legal tower in these be torn down and they go through the process.
I'm asking you to do that.
Thank you.
Thank you.
I really didn't plan on coming up here and speaking.
But I'm sure sort of as a friend of the board.
And while what I'm going to talk about is far more involved.
If any of you would like to get together at some time.
I'll be happy to share these insights.
I'm going to tell a communications engineer with 50 years experience.
And over those 50 years I've watched the industry evolve.
And what they do is they go out and they hook you on a capability.
And then they give you the cost so that you can satisfy that appetite.
And now the appetite is broadband.
They started out by putting it out over fiber with fios.
They've laid the fiber out where I live on hunting Ridge Road.
That was 15 years ago.
But because of the lack of density of housing out there.
They're not going to go to the expense of pushing the regeneration capability out that far.
To activate that fiber.
So that's a non-starter.
You'll advise it Lee.
Your school board went out and distributed a bunch of computers all over the county.
So the kids couldn't do their homework from home over the internet.
That's a bad idea.
Again, they put the appetite there.
But now you have no access.
Because you have no fiber.
If you've been to my place, some of you have.
The top of my house looks like a military command center with the satellite dishes.
You can get high speed fiber over high speed internet over that satellite.
And it's depending upon how you've had it installed and how you position it.
It's dependable.
Unfortunately, satellite is experiencing the same problem that other communications media have.
Because they're going up in frequency.
Why are they going up in frequency?
They're going up in frequency because that gives you wide or bandwidth.
They're going to video streaming.
Video streaming doesn't work well right now over satellite.
Why?
Because of the frequency bandwidth that you're allocated.
If you're going to go about half-hazardly putting 100 foot towers around this county,
you're going to have a big problem.
Because when 5G comes around and they go to millimeter wave,
the problem that you have is the higher the frequency, the shorter the wavelength,
and the greater the line of site requirement.
When they go to 5G and they go to millimeter wave, 100 feet isn't going to do it.
If you have someone in a hole somewhere, down below the ridge lines,
and they put up 100 foot tower, it's probably not going to work now for these services.
A lot of these, you know, I've nothing against these wireless companies,
but a lot of these wireless companies have popped up because they can do it cheaply.
They pop up cheaply, it's the end user's responsibility to get line of site.
And so then they're proliferating all over the place.
Now they want to come in and put this burden on you to solve their problem,
which is line of site.
And of course you've got a lot of customers out here that are unhappy
because that problem hasn't been solved, so they're coming to you.
I think to solve this problem, the providers, whoever they are,
have to come to you with a cohesive solution that's going to put towers,
however tall they are, in places where they're effective.
It's just like cell service for telephones.
If you don't have line of site, it doesn't work.
If you put them up haphazardly, you're not going to satisfy the problem.
And in the future, the towers are going to have to be taller because the band with this go,
and the frequency is going up.
Therefore, the line of site is greater.
That's all I've got.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
I'm sorry, sir.
The microphone wasn't picking you up.
There we go.
Tim Regan from Back Creek District.
I'm not going to go over what a lot of people have said.
But one of the questions I do, not even a question, don't you think any of these towers
will also help with your emergency communication issues?
Where if I had 180 foot tower in order to get broadband, I'm more than welcome to allow
the Frederick County to come in and put whatever they need to put on it.
So this way, the police department, the fire department, can get radio communications,
or cell phone communications out in my area.
That's not an issue.
I have no problem with that.
Have you ever thought of that?
That some of these towers would help you with those things?
You go scops go out there, fire department goes out there.
And they have no communications back to their own commands.
You thought of it?
Probably not.
And yes, I did choose to live out in that area.
I did do that.
But I didn't choose to be in an area where people I thought
would to get a tower, which falls to quest falls on me.
Whatever it may be, 2,03500.
That I'm going to have to put up to get that tower.
And then have what?
$7,000 to get a cup.
$300 to get a cup.
You think that's affordable for people that need to do that?
That's all.
Thank you for your time.
Thank you, sir.
Anyone else?
Yeah.
Everyone else gets a chance.
First, please.
Welcome, sir.
Thank you, chairman.
Members of the board.
Patrick Sowers, a pecking,
Magisterial District.
But here's speaking tonight on behalf of the top of
Virginia Building Association.
We did provide a letter.
I just want to read a short statement into the record.
While the TVBA is supportive of providing options for broadband
Internet services to all parts of our county.
Membership has expressed concern that increasing the height for
bi-right telecommunication facilities for 50 feet to 100 feet.
Could negatively impact rural properties, particularly rural
subdivisions.
Currently, any such tower in excess of 50 feet in the height would be
required to obtain a approval of a conditional use permit by
the board supervisors.
This process allows for site specific conditions to be applied to a
approval of such a use should the board find that use
appropriate in that location.
As currently proposed, a tax permit does not differentiate between a
rural subdivision composed, comprised of two acre lots,
or a much larger tract of rural land.
Construction of a hundred foot tower for commercial use on a
bi-right basis within or immediately adjacent to a rural
subdivision could significantly impact residents within that
subdivision.
The TVBA would urge the board supervisors to consider the
possible impacts of allowing for 100 foot commercial towers on a
bi-right basis.
The conditional use permit process for such a use would appear to be the best
tool for analyzing impacts and benefits of a proposed tower in
excess of 50 feet in the height on a case by case basis.
Again, we just want to stress that tonight's decision isn't about
broadband access or not.
It's simply there's a CUP process in place currently and we
want to see if you feel that's the appropriate vehicle for
towers and excess of 50 feet.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Do anyone else?
Anyone at all?
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Let's see.
I really feel bad for a lot of these people who have these problems with the
internet and I wasn't going to say anything about that because I wrote
something up and I'm going to read it.
But I wish to make clear that I definitely support having
internet here.
It's not just a supervisor problem.
We should look at the alternatives.
I only want to look at the least problematic solutions that may be available.
And we also have to think about the changes that are going to come.
So if we have a bunch of 100 foot towers that are going to be up and
they won't be usable in so many years, we have to look at that too if we can.
And I'm not a technology person and address it.
I'm of the least problematic solution should be restrictions on where
these towers are placed.
Another thing is this by right thing may be problematic.
Let's keep the cup option.
So neighbors can have something to say about where these items are placed.
Next, maybe we can help emerging competitors get more favorable treatment and see what we can get.
It almost helps to have competition.
Secondly, I'd like to present a somewhat different perspective that I've heard.
And then involves doing what's right and moral.
I'm not a preacher, but I believe Jesus said,
love thy neighbor as thyself.
And that's not an easy thing to do.
By examining by right, which to me seems like the biggest problem with this,
it's not the 100 foot towers, but it's the by right.
Isn't it likely that neighbors may be injured in some way because of it?
When you have a subdivision and somebody buys a house and decides,
I'm going to put 100 foot tower on here.
For getting what the other neighbors may feel,
doesn't even have to go to them.
Let's say neighbors came to a subdivision in a particular sub.
Am I already three minutes?
Sure.
I got it.
If you could.
Well, if I got a stop, I'll stop.
Thank you for your comments.
I will offer you an opportunity to continue.
I don't know.
Talk fast.
Anyone else who would like to speak? Yes sir.
Mason, back creek.
What these ones, I won't see nothing without it.
Excuse me.
I would hope that the board supervisors were turned down the request for the 100 foot by right towers.
Additional use permit was put in place to allow municipalities to control certain uses,
which could have detrimental effects in the community.
If you allow the 100 foot by right, you will be opening up Pandora's box.
You're taking the board and the people in the community voices away.
Every situation is different and keeping a CEP in place allows everybody to be.
Internet is a big thing.
I agree.
We got to find a way.
But do it with the CUP so it's done responsibly.
Internet is big for everybody and I would love to see us work at this problem out.
But just not by by right.
Also, there's other methods out here to get Internet today.
As you know, use net.
You know what I'm saying?
They all got the problems.
We all know that.
But these 100 foot towers on the other way you're going to get Internet today.
Our scoreboard is already addressed these concerns by giving all the students Chromebooks.
And they're given time before they do the class to download everything they need.
So the school board is already addressed this problem.
So I don't know what they're saying about their students and computers because they're the Chromebooks
given to all the kids.
This is a economical impact of these towers are installed.
They're responsibly with very little restrictions.
These towers can negatively affect our home values and with the praises the way they are today.
You may not have one in your front yard today, but it eventually will affect everybody.
Builders are very nervous as you've already heard about this 100 foot by right.
Because I know this will negatively affect the building market today.
By keeping the CUP in place doesn't mean that we don't want Internet.
It just means you have to apply for it in their response.
But I 100% agree lower the CUP to $300, $400, so it's an affordable option.
But keep it in place so people still have their voice today.
It's also been thrown around about 15 first by right.
I don't know how you determine what the tree line is because I try to look it up online.
There's no really.
So what do you say?
And if you've got 100 foot tree, then you can put 125 foot tower.
If you know what's line of sight is that a mile down the road where there's a mountain.
So you've got to have a 200 foot tower.
So I hope we would consider not any by right tower today.
I hope it's all done by CUP.
You're all a very smart people.
You know that it has to be done responsibly.
And I trust in you that you'll take care of that.
And like I say, I hope we can all come to a great solution for everybody.
Thank you very much.
Thank you sir.
Is there anyone else?
Yes, ma'am.
Hi, my name's Tara Shastik and I'm with the back.
Great district.
I think I appreciate the opportunity to come and speak in front of you all.
I appreciate the notice that we were given that this was even occurring.
All these folks that came out and were able to provide comments.
It's it's an important part of being a member of the county.
I'm not currently practicing law, but for many years I was a telecommunications attorney.
My the majority of my work involved advocating for rural telephone companies.
Telecommunications carriers before the FCC.
Looking to deploy broadband service in rural and underserved and unserved areas.
It's a passion of mine.
I'm not practicing now, but it's definitely a passion.
And you could hear all the folks here that make it clear.
It's necessary.
A comprehensive plan needs to be developed to figure out what needs to be done to ensure that the folks in
Frederick County have access to broadband.
Okay, it's been a number of years since I've practiced.
Twenty five years since I started practicing way back when broadband deployment is a problem.
Removing the public input and the public notice and the opportunity for folks to comment.
On antenna towers is not the answer.
I wish it were that easy.
If the FCC could just say you know what all localities do away with your cut process.
Broadband deployment will be immediate.
That would be fantastic.
Taking the public comment and notice provisions and the protections that that offers your public.
To comment is not going to be the solution to providing broadband.
To the Frederick County.
The conditionally used permitting process has to stay for towers up to 100 feet.
Above 100 feet.
This is not a will you allow 100 foot tower or not allow 100 foot tower is will you continue to allow the public.
The opportunity to comment on what impacts that 100 foot tower is going to have on their living space and where they live.
I encourage you to visit reducing the price of the conditionally used permitting.
I think that that probably is a barrier to focus wanting to apply for a cup and follow that process.
So you could look at reducing that price to cover the costs that the county incurred with an application but doing away with the application itself.
And not allowing the folks behind me to comment when they're going to have a tower next door to them.
Or a tower that's going to be next door to a park or whatever other place that they're planning on putting towers is problematic.
You can't take away the public voice from when you're doing something as important as putting 100 foot tower up in someone's backyard.
Over at the park, Sharon O'Park could be subjected to having towers put up with no comment.
I encourage you to do a broadband study, rural broadband study.
You've got folks in the audience here that have the expertise that could help you figure out what needs to be done but it needs to be planned.
Like the gentleman said it cannot be.
Hap hazard tower is going up with no opportunity for public comment.
So I highly encourage you to do a rural broadband study to see where the problems are in the county and have a comprehensive plan to do a smart deployment.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Anyone else?
Does anyone else who would like to speak to the tower issue?
Anyone at all?
All right, sir.
Additional three minutes, please, sir.
Real quick, I'd like to address that there are other comment about the 5G frequencies on the millimeter microwave.
Yes, there is millimeter microwave 24 to 27 gigahertz but they will not be used in rural areas.
They will only be used in municipalities.
It's a misnomer that's been put in the press in the news a lot so that distance between tower stuff they're talking about inside district.
But as to the tower, the 50 foot tower and the 100 foot tower rule.
It's not aimed.
As I look at this, it's not really aimed at the commercial provider really putting up towers.
Most of this is going to be the home owner who needs broadband.
This isn't Hap hazard as internet service providers throwing up 100 foot towers everywhere.
So it's going to be the end user that's going to be erecting a tower.
And they're like I said, they're only going to spend however much they need to go.
So you're not going to see a lot.
Now, I spoke in loud and county in Clark County.
Both of those have adopted 100 foot tower by right rules.
And in Clark County, I think there's been three in loud and county.
I don't know the total number.
But no complaints.
No one's come back and forth and yell.
No one's been in the meeting saying these towers are affecting anything.
Because it's the homeowners.
And if you've got a home owner that can't get access to broadband, which should be almost an essential right as much as getting electricity and having gas and heat.
The internet is becoming that much of dependent in people's lives from the make money and survive.
That this isn't an issue.
I mean, typically if someone's living in the woods, their neighbor probably also is in the woods.
Or they can't see them because they're in the woods.
The other person's in the woods.
So these towers don't think of it as internet service providers running out everywhere and throwing up towers.
Because we'd have to end the land.
And that's not what we're looking to do.
This is a solution for the end user to be able to get internet at his house.
And they're only going to build it as hot.
Think about you at your house.
If you had to get internet access to your house, you needed it.
Would you put 100 foot tower up on your own need of 40?
Yes, there is no.
You wouldn't spend that money.
So you're not going to see it.
The other counties haven't seen it.
This type of adoption of the 100 foot tower of our right.
If you're already in seeing it, the surrounding counties around and there's been no issues.
And no, not yet.
No one's complaining.
And we have not received one single complaint about any counties from the FCC for that.
We do receive complaints about tower setting issues.
A lot.
But we get more complaints that the FCC for people with lack of broadband.
That is probably the number one other than calls, Robo calls, which is the absolute number one.
All right.
Well, thank you very much.
Thank you, sir.
Mr. Rolls.
I'm sorry, sir.
In a moment, Mr. Rolls.
Have to take issue.
You don't just like again there.
Thank you, sir.
Thanks for the reminder.
Have to take issue with that because we actually live in a subdivision where there would be.
There would be a number of people.
Power that's been.
Anyhow.
All I really wanted to say is you could have somebody currently.
If you pass this.
That doesn't live in the subdivision.
Decides to put up this 100 foot tower.
For a profit.
You then may have 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 15 people that are very upset with it.
And they wouldn't have a chance to express their opinion.
All I'm really saying is I've heard others say.
Is continue with a cup process or something similar.
Where it has to go through a process of being vetted.
So that everybody has kind of a win win.
We all, I think everyone here wants high speed internet.
I happen to be lucky.
I'm getting it from a service provider.
But obviously, lots of other people are not.
So I firmly ask the board please.
In addition to whatever rewrite studies or anything else,
amendments keep the cup process or something improving the cup process.
Thereby giving people at least some voice to decide where these towers are going to be placed.
Isn't that the right and moral approach to this?
Thank you, sir.
Pressure.
Thank you for the second opportunity.
You have a very unique job.
I think everybody here really appreciates that.
You have to find a compromise.
You have to find something.
You're not going to please everybody.
We all know that someone's going to leave here.
Happy.
Someone's not just going to leave.
But saying that, I think facts are very important.
We all dealt with the Chlorox Fiasco where there was information.
Some of it was true.
Some of it wasn't true.
And it created a significant issue for our community.
To the gentleman that said closed loopholes.
Maybe he isn't aware that there's already a loophole.
And that loophole is if you're a ham operator radio,
you can erect a tower of 199 feet.
And Frederick County Board of Supervisors has very few rules in place to prevent them from doing that.
So I think the compromise here is that allowing that hundred foot,
you're not going to have people trying to find a way around it.
The one going to month law by another thing to keep in mind.
They tell you that unless you have a concealed carry permit and guess what?
In fact, your county alone, 113% up because people will find a way around things if they can.
If there's a will, there's a way.
I think here that do we really want people become a ham operator,
ham operators and erecting 199 foot towers out of spite?
No, we don't.
So I think by you allowing the individuals in this community at a hundred feet,
people will use common sense when doing this.
And lastly, the study that was released in 2013,
I know Supervisor Graver would like to have an extensive study.
There is an extensive study and you paid $45,000 for it.
So I think if you haven't exhausted everything there along with all of the other studies that have been done by the state of Virginia,
since that time, we shouldn't spend any more money on another exhaustive study until we've exploited it
and ruled it either as a good idea or bad idea.
So once again, I think this compromise, I do think it's in the best interest of the community to go with the hundred feet,
because that will keep people from finding a will or finding a way around something.
Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
How does strongly disagree with that?
If you take the CUP away, let's say somebody goes, put 120 foot tower on.
We cannot go to the board of supervisors. We cannot go to planning.
We cannot go to the permit process. Your hands are out of it.
So we have no body on any type of board with our government that we can go to, except for lawyer.
So you take in, just me on us, there's really only one man asking for this tower right now.
And you've already known all the illegal towers that he's put up in front of county.
So don't say people are going to the right thing because he's already showed he's not going to do the right thing.
So please keep to see you picking process.
Sir, is there anyone else? Yes, sir.
I'm jewel.
I creek district.
Technology has changed. The study that was done was done years ago.
You all know what I didn't for a living. I also worked with the FCC.
I also worked with Verizon and AT&T.
5G currently is urban.
5G is going to make it out.
And it's going to take years.
Again, I just want to make sure it's not about the hundred foot tower.
It's about the process.
That's all I'm asking.
That we least give folks the right to voice there concerns.
I saw it again January 15th,
which Rando and that's all just give people the right to give their voice.
And also take the CUP and reduce the fee so that the small companies can then do that.
I know the fee is very high right now.
$7,000 I believe.
Take it down to $650.
That's affordable.
For me, that's three months of internet.
That's all. Thank you.
Thank you, sir.
Anyone else?
And we'll close the public comment portion of the meeting.
I would de board like to deal with this.
Great.
Mr. Chairman, I have a lot of comments I'd like to make.
There's been a lot of bad information sent out there about me by one carrier.
And I have talked with at 350 over 350 emails and over 100 telephone calls over the last three days.
My wife can attest it's been a long days.
I have some solutions.
I believe there are long-term solutions in short-term solutions.
I do believe that this group, the supervisors here, should look at a work group to look at the broadband study.
I have never advocated.
We do another study.
I've advocated that we utilize this study in which we currently have.
Those of you who know me know that I believe that if you own property, you should be able to do on your property as you so desire.
As long as it does not affect your neighbor's property or his or her ability to do likewise.
If I may, I have a small slideshow again.
We do have a wireless provider in this county that has chosen to do things that are against the current CUP process.
One of those happens to be in a subdivision in my district.
It happens to be in the chimney hill subdivision.
That is a tower that has been stopped due to not having obtained the proper permitting process.
As you see, it's already above the tree line, but it's not finished.
If you go to the next slide, my friend, there's a house, keep going.
That's a long view of it.
This is the green space of that community.
It's essentially the backyards of some folks.
It's the backyards of the owner of that property, but the guidewires and all lead right to the property edge.
If you go to one more one more, slide there.
This is another long view of it.
It is really an assaur for that community.
Had this tower been put up properly, there would have been a CUP.
And had that CUP been vetted.
The neighbors could have had their input.
I understand the concern of the CUP.
It's a $7,000 ordeal right now.
And that is a overly burdensome fee in my opinion.
It's my opinion that we need to look at a long term in a short term solution.
Thus, here's what I will likely be proposing here in just a moment.
I'd like to see us drop the CUP fee from $7,000 to $750 for our commercial providers to allow them to have an opportunity to explore locations to put towers that would make life much easier for them.
And also drop that fee from $7,000 to $500 for an individual who would desire to put a tower on his or her property.
That would make it much more reasonable for those individuals to place a tower on their property.
I believe that that is a long term solution.
I believe there may be an opportunity to find common ground to raise the tower height from the current 50 foot to 100 foot with a couple stipulations.
One of those stipulations may be having a maximum of 15 feet above the tree line.
As you see that tower there, if you look at it from different angles, but somehow when you just look at it as it look as if it is well above 15 feet above the tree line.
I also believe that if we do do the 15 feet above the tree line by right up to 100 feet, so anything any tower over 100 feet would require a CUP.
If we made it an administrative review process that there would continue to be some oversight by government to have a little bit of control over that tower.
I believe if we implement these things that we can encourage additional service providers to come to our area and invest in providing broadband service.
This not only provides competition, hopefully it will provide better service at a cheaper price to those of you in our community who need it.
Therefore, I'd like to see us have discussion after this whole process has done of developing a broadband work group to develop a strategic plan on how we are going to roll out broadband service to our community going forward.
Thank you.
All right.
Board.
Mr Chairman.
Yes.
If there are no other comments, I would like to make a motion.
I move the dashboard to approve the amendment to the Frederick County Code chapter 165, zoning Article 2 supplemental use regulations parking buffer and regulations for specific uses with the following changes.
That section B sub sections C shall include a provision that a tower structure with attached wireless facilities shall not be more than 15 feet above the tree line, but shall never exceed 100 feet without a CUP.
Section C sub section to the current conditional use permit fee shall be reduced from $7,000 to $500 for a residential use application and $750 for a commercial use application.
Additionally, the language stating that the provisions sub sections B1C shall only apply to facilities in which are constructed after February the 12th of 2020.
There ends my motion and I'll have a second motion after this one's complete.
I can earn.
And the second.
Discussion.
Mr Chairman.
Yes.
All right. We'll try it again.
Yes.
We'll try to turn them off.
So we have a real issue at the Western rural areas, Frederick County.
There's no broadband access via fiber optic, cable, etc.
And currently the only way to get broadband is via wireless.
In 2013, Frederick County participated in the comprehensive broadband study.
And the study stress that broadband has the following benefits to those who have access, financial savings,
increased productivity, educational benefits, improved voice, communications with savings, increased societal participation,
and informed the electorate, increased health care access, improved public emergency services,
and currently these benefits are not readily available to the citizens of Gainesboro and back Creek.
The study stated that, quote, Frederick County has several significant coverage gaps,
most notably in Gainesboro and back Creek areas.
The study pointed out there is no business case, which would induce current broadband providers or cellular providers
to expand into the rural underserved areas of the county.
What was the solution recommended in that study, the comprehensive study that we paid for?
Quote, fixed wireless technology is the most economical and easily deployed last mile broadband service rural areas.
The study recommends that the county take action to see that additional towers be constructed at little to no cost to service providers.
So the question is, what has the county done since the study came out in 2013
to promote development of broadband availability of availability?
The answer, nothing as far as I can tell.
Nearly a decade has passed since the study was done.
An entire generation of students who were fifth graders when the study was done are now graduating from high school,
never having had access to broadband.
And as far as I know, no solutions have been offered to address this issue.
And more students in Gainesboro and back Creek will graduate from school having had fewer opportunities in their peers in the more urban areas of the county
before we finally address this issue.
An issue that cannot be a weight cannot wait to be addressed.
No one on this board has taken any action to address this problem before supervisor loft and I began this conversation in 2018.
Even today, after months of discussion about my proposal, there are still no alternative solutions being offered to eliminate the disparity between the residents of Gainesboro and back Creek and the rest of Frederick County.
The bottom line is that we need to do something to increase access and competition.
We cannot continue to sit idly by doing nothing as these residents fall further and further behind.
I've been working closely with supervisor Graver to address any and all concerns that have been posed regarding my initial proposal.
And I believe that the revised proposal adequately addresses all those concerns while the same time making great strides to improve access and competition in our districts.
We've heard that the voice of chicken little telling us that if we pass the ordinance the sky will fall that 100 foot towers will start popping up all over for the county.
There's absolutely no evidence to support that prediction.
Two years ago Clark County began considering and passed and even more lenient ordinance than the one that supervisor Graver and I put before each night.
And guess what, towers are not popping up all over Clark County.
These towers are expensive to build in the first place and every additional foot added to a tower cost more money.
So it's unlikely that superfluous towers are going to start popping up around Frederick County.
As I said, supervisor Graver and I have addressed each issue pose to the address to address the concern that 100 foot towers will start popping up.
We would limit all towers over 50 feet to be no more than 15 feet above the tree line and in no case higher than 100 feet.
In other words, if you have 50 foot trees on your property, you can only build a 65 foot tower, not a 100 foot tower.
We've been told that making the ordinance by right that it will lead to too little oversight.
To supervisor Graver and I have crafted this ordinance to require that all towers go through the administrative approval process.
What does that mean?
It means that every tower being constructed will require an application to be filed with the county zoning administrator for review.
The zoning administrator wants sure that the proposed tower meets all the applicable standards of the ordinance.
And additionally allows the administrator to deny an application if the tower construction would pose a safety hazard.
We've been told that there are ISP providers who have ignored the law prior to now and that those bad actors should not be rewarded and supervisor Graver and I agree on that.
So our revised ordinance would apply only to new towers constructed after today.
Any tower illegally constructed prior to today is still an illegal tower and the consequences are breaking that law still apply.
We've been told that the county wide that county wide we should consider lowering the CUP application fee for towers and we agree.
So we've revised our ordinance and would reduce the CUP fee from 7000 to 750 for commercial application $500 for residential application.
Folks, the bottom line here is that this ordinance is crafted for the residents of Gainesboro and back Creek primarily.
It will affect the residents and back Creek primarily.
The supervisors for Gainesboro and back Creek and most of the constituents of Gainesboro and back Creek support this ordinance as we've revised it.
We would ask that is typically the case when a matter is before the board that primarily affects only one or two districts that you give great difference to the wishes of the representatives of those districts.
Imagine if the shoe were on the other foot wouldn't you expect as much consideration for your constituents sake.
This revised ordinance is the best solution to come before this board in seven years.
Unless you've got a different and viable solution to this problem than I urge my fellow board members to eliminate the disparity endured in my district and supervisor Graver's district.
Vote in favor of the only viable solution that has yet been proposed.
A solution that will expand access to broadband for those who have no other options.
A solution that will enable more service providers to enter the market and improve the quality of service and lower the cost of service.
A solution that balances the chant challenges by those who need access with the challenges faced by those who have concerns about expanding tower restrictions.
Please do not allow the bad acts of one or two individuals to be the reason to stand in the way of serving.
The many good and hardworking members of our community.
By and large, your constituents outside of the Gainesboro and Stonewall districts have long enjoyed the benefits of having access to broadband.
A basic service that most people today consider an necessity.
Please urge you to join supervisor Graver and I and offering to our constituents the same opportunity that your constituents already enjoy.
Please vote in favor of this pro business, pro education, pro economic freedom, pro quality of life ordinance for the sake and welfare of our citizens.
Thank you, Chairman.
Further discussion, anyone?
Chairman.
Yes, sir.
Mr. Fesh.
I appreciate everyone coming out and realize the issues with lack of broadband coverage.
I guess I have a question for some citizens of the Shawnee district.
How come they've been discriminated against on the east side of 81?
I have all kinds of citizens who cannot get broadband coverage.
So they just get cut out of the process, I guess.
Another issue is the height issue seems backwards to me.
The flat land to the east of 81.
You get better coverage with a hundred foot.
You put a hundred foot on the west side and the bridge and valleys.
Your coverage is going to be much more limited.
I don't think that's.
It's just there's not a logic there.
The school system has informed us as a gentleman mentioned.
The students are allowed to download all of their information under their Chromebooks and take homes.
So because this takes into account those, it don't have broadband.
I think the conditional use permit probably needs to be looked at.
Maybe fees and some of these other things.
And this above the tree lines a great thing till the tree grows.
So I think putting these changes eight to eight and both of us who haven't had time to think about it.
Look at it, stay up involvement is inappropriate.
I will not support any of these.
The amendments for emotions deal with these towers tonight.
I think we've got the part way in front of the horse here.
Are there discussion anyone?
Anyone?
My only big concern is the administrative review process eliminates the citizens that we are here to serve.
And I think that is wrong.
And I think that this needs to go through the normal panels.
RRC subcommittee and a PC.
He's need to be read.
When you let that allows a reasonable calculation of the needed height, I could probably support.
But I can't support this in the way it's coming.
Any other discussion?
Anyone?
Mr. President.
Mr. President.
We've gone through this number of times.
If you've postponed this for a couple of weeks, does that help to go and relieve some of the issues that Mr. Fisher has raised?
No, you're trying to solve a problem for your area, which I fully appreciate.
We obviously pay above 100 feet.
That's a safety issue for that.
It's just a thought.
Answer your question.
I'm not opposed to waiting a couple of weeks for people to think through the proposal.
My only concern is that we've waited seven years and no one has come forward.
We've been talking about this now for three, four months and not a single member of this board has come forward with an alternate solution.
So I have little confidence that unless supervisor Graber and I are the ones pushing it that there's not going to be an alternate solution that comes forward.
So I'm fine with giving another two weeks, but who's going to look out for the people of Gainesboro and back Creek when we've been talking about this and no one has yet come forward with a separate solution.
With regard to the CUP, I agree 100% with what all the supervisors said about lowering the fees, but still the CUP process and enough itself and a fee of $500 for a mother with a child who doesn't like to go out at night to have to come before boards on multiple occasions.
And then an additional $500 in addition to the cost of the tower and addition to the cost of the high cost of the internet service that we are capable of getting, which we're very glad to get, but cost us more than what folks on the east side are paying for their cable companies and those types of things for comparable broadband service.
It all adds up and it makes it really difficult and I just think that there's a lot of chicken little stuff going on where people are saying this guy is going to fall, this guy is going to fall.
And example after example across this country prove that wrong, there's no evidence that proves that this type of ordinance is going to lead to the types of things that people are coming up here tonight, fear mongering and keeping Gainesboro and back Creek in the dark ages because we can't get access the same thing that you and your children and the other districts have access to.
Mr. Chairman, I personally spent over 200 hours on this project just since I've been elected five weeks ago, I have done extensive research and as Mr. Dunn has said, I'm sorry Mr. McCarthy has stated.
This has been something that has been before the board for many months, I as Mr. McCarthy has stated agree, it is time that we allow our residents to have some of the same luxuries and necessities that other areas of the county are privileged to, therefore I would like to call for the question.
Guys are great. Yes.
She provides her done.
Hi. She provides her wells.
No.
She provides her slaughter.
Yeah.
She provides her McCarthy. Yes.
She provides her fisher.
Oh.
Chair votes now.
Motion fails.
Just so you'll know.
I live east of 81 and I can't get high speed internet either.
Okay. All right.
Well, we'll come to order now.
Resonings, 0719 of General Harvest, Mr. Ruddy.
The Chairman, thank you very much, members of the Board of Supervisors.
This is an application to reason on 1.2 acres from the B2 business general district to the B3 industrial district with
Prophors. Of course, at 120 front row of pike, it's an application that you have seen previously.
The applicant provided some modified profit statements, which included additional uses that they were
offering out. So you had postponed action on this from your previous meeting to give us all the opportunity to look at those revised
Prophors.
I point out that the as a revised profit statement in your agenda this evening and the applicant has provided an additional revision to the
Prophor statement that I believe was circulated by the clerk here in the past couple of days.
So with that being said, just want to touch on a couple of the items that were included and you can see them in red on the screen there to your left.
Officers and storage facilities for building construction contractors, heavy construction contractors and special trade contractors prohibited.
In addition to a variety of other uses that are identified in the B3 district.
Again, the applicant has provided that revised profit statement with all those uses identified.
In addition to the Prophors that were modified, I will reiterate that the development of the property will be in substantial conformance with the general landscape plan that was provided with this application.
And that the owner profit and monetary contribution to fire and rescue services.
Again, that's the general layout of their facility.
So chairman, the planning commission recommended approval at their December 18th meeting prior to the board's discussion at your January 22 meeting.
As the public hearing has already been held, none is necessary at this point.
And we would be looking for a recommendation from the board on this item.
Again, Mr. Tyloson provided you some additional comments on behalf of the applicant at the beginning of the meeting.
Thank you.
Questions of Mr. Roddy. Anyone?
Thank you very much.
Would the board like to handle this?
Chairman, sorry.
This one has taken a lot of issues.
And I think in my opinion where I have arrived with this, I believe that the B3 zoning is not an appropriate fit for this B2 area.
And therefore, I would recommend denial of rezoning 0.7-19 for general harvest LC.
Yes, sir.
Thank you, sir.
Have a motion.
Is there a second?
Second.
And a second.
Is there any discussion?
Anyone?
And?
Professor Fisher.
Aye.
She provides him a carty.
Aye.
She provides her slaughter.
Aye.
She provides her wells.
Aye.
She provides her grave.
Aye.
Chair votes aye.
Motion's unanimous.
It's denied.
All right.
That will bring us to board liaison reports.
Are there any?
Hearing none.
Citizen comments on any issue that they might like to address the board on.
Anyone?
Yes, sir.
Come forward, please.
On Ferguson, back, county, back, creek.
Save on the three-minute.
I've been working with Representative Graver on the issue that I'd like you to think about.
Right now, Virginia has a hundred percent disabled veteran gets property tax relief.
For a veteran who become a hundred percent, does anybody honestly understand how you become a hundred percent?
Because the VA math is terrible.
If somebody has a disability of 40, 30, 20, 10, logic would say it's a hundred percent.
No, at that number, you would be a 70 percent disabled veteran.
So the numbers that I have in front of me, which I believe Mr. Graver has sent out to you all, is if a veteran has and I'll just give you a quick list.
This is almost identical to me.
You got a TBI from a roadside bomb.
The loss of hearing, headaches, vertigo, PTS, knee damage, shoulder damage, and foot damage.
If you go through the numbers with the VA of what this individual is, they would only be 90 percent.
They do not rate any relief from the personal property tax.
What I am asking you to do is join the other 15 counties.
There are 95 counties in this state.
The 15 of them have already adopted allowing a veteran that's a hundred percent disabled to get one vehicle relief.
Now, what we're going to talk about numbers, that makes sense.
So you all get from the personal property tax.
You get $59 million in give or take.
You have 171 veterans taking advantage of that number because they rate a hundred percent from the VA.
Of that number, if we turn it over to how much everybody gets taxed per person for personal property, it's $862.
That takes into account tractors, trailers, the whole nine yards.
If we widget that down, typically people have two cars within the family.
And of those cars, we cut it in half.
So if I'm talking about one car, let's say it's $430.
Time to 171 people.
You're talking a $73,000 loss.
Now, how do we get to a hundred percent?
It's a demon.
If you ever really want to understand the VA math, please sit down with me or invite me somewhere.
I will explain it wholeheartedly.
The problem that we have is that we do not have any other things.
Right now in the Virginia Senate, there is a motion for a constitutional amendment.
In 2019, it was voted on and approved 2020.
February this year, it was again approved.
It is going to be going to the vote 2021.
So we, as constituents, will have a vote on it.
It is to that point.
What I'm asking you to do is give that you leniency to the hundred percent disabled veterans now.
So we don't have to wait for it.
But I'd also ask you to do one more step.
Do it for 90%.
Do it for 90% disabled veterans because as of right now, 90% do not get property tax.
Love that.
Thank you, sir.
90% don't get anything.
But if you want to step above everybody else and say we are here to support our veterans,
we are going to offer $430 relief per year.
$430 means nothing.
So when you look at the numbers, I'm going to wrap it up.
When you look at the numbers, I am asking for 0.001 percent to be given back to the veterans
who went forward and they were ready to give their lives to defend this nation.
I will answer any questions if you have any.
Thank you, sir.
I appreciate your time.
I would like to address the board on any subject.
Anyone?
All right.
Board supervisors, comments.
Are there any?
Mr. Chairman.
Yes, sir.
I would like to make a motion that we send to the Finance Committee for consideration,
a directive that we look at making one vehicle tax example.
One piece of personal property tax example.
For 100% disabled veterans with a $40,000 cap.
I'd like to make that as a motion.
You've heard the motion, sir.
Second.
Second.
Sir, any discussion?
We're sending it to Finance to have a discussion.
That's your intent.
Yes, sir.
Thank you.
Other discussion?
Anyone?
All those in favor?
Aye.
Aye.
Opposed?
No.
Send it forward for consideration and discussion.
We're to supervisors, comments.
Are there any?
Chairman, please.
We have a number of items that are before the general assembly.
We have five issues that affect the residents and red blood.
First, in sovereign village, we've had a number of trucks that are in Prague for a long
period of time.
Three weeks ago, I went down and testified before the Transportation Committee in the house
to address that.
They did pass a bill out for full consideration.
And if you were in red blood, and this is a concern to you, please go and contact
the Liberal Rock and Jill Volo to support this.
It will take state legislation to address this issue.
The bill needs to pass.
So if you're concerned about trucks, tractor trailers,
proxited in the sovereign village, I did go down there to speak on the issue.
We're moving the issue.
But now you need to go out and get the boats that we need to get to threat.
Number two, Mr. Chairman.
Does the bill right now in the general assembly,
that would allow municipalities and the county to go and have the same
tax structure for meals?
There are lots of people that come in here from West Virginia and their
tourists.
They spend their money.
If we can get this bill to be implemented in July,
it will raise about $3.2 million for Frederick County.
There are two bills.
The Senate bill delays this for a year.
If you have any connections with Senator Saaslow's Chairman of the Senate,
please ask him to go and implement it for this year.
Effective July first, not a year from now.
That will help Frederick County.
We've just come through a budget situation and we need that money.
It's a good bill.
Please vote for it.
Number three, right to work.
Right to work has been here since 1947.
There are two bills right now in the general assembly that would
help that.
I think that a person that works in this county should not be required to join a
union in order to work.
It should be required to go and pay union dues for benefits that he may
may not receive.
So this is another issue that's affecting Frederick County.
In a fixed Frederick County, he was a Winchester City alone,
a study shows that this will cost Winchester City a million dollars.
One million dollars.
In Frederick County, that number will be significantly higher.
So for that reason, that bill needs to be defeated.
Fourth, red flag loss.
A knock on the door, a two o'clock in the morning, to say that your neighbor says
that your bad person is inappropriate.
A two o'clock in the morning, a knock on your door.
Even if it comes from the sheriff's office, the person inside half a
sleep is not going to believe that.
It also goes and presumes that the person is guilty.
And we come up from a constitution of view point where you're innocent until
proven guilty, not guilty until proven innocent.
Red flag laws directly affect us.
The general assembly may or may not pass this.
They do not need to pass this.
If someone is so concerned about his neighbor, that there's a concern about
harming somebody else.
Then they should tell the police, we have a concern about John Doe or
you.
Let that person take that person into a mental health facility to address
that issue.
But a knock on the door to a clock from a neighbor who doesn't like
his other neighbor is just wrong.
So that needs to be defeated.
And finally, quote unquote, assault weapons.
Governor Northam, your public safety director said that air
15s are assault weapons.
That is incorrect.
We're fighting on public policy here.
But at least have the information accurate.
And air 15 is a single shot repeating weapon.
And that's all it is.
No one in the military uses air 15s.
In the military, you have weapons that can go fully automatic or
with a free shot first.
And air 15 does not do that.
But by denying people an air 15 or other weapons that have more than
12 rounds, you are putting in life in jeopardy of a young girl.
A loan at home, which people come through her house to rob her or do worse.
And she could not defend herself.
You were putting in jeopardy in 85 year old woman.
With multiple people coming in to say, we will rob and harm you.
And being unable to defend herself.
Most people that are honest people legally have air 15s and
criminals do not.
You need to go, Mr. Governor.
And not criminalize law-abiding citizens to go after criminals.
This legislation was nothing to go and improve the safety of anybody in
the country, in the county.
But we'll have a detrimental effect on giving people the opportunity to defend
themselves.
Please withdraw it.
Thank you, Mr. Governor.
Further comments, Board of Supervisors, anyone.
Supervisor McCarthy.
Thank you.
I did the fact that we didn't accomplish much tonight with regard to
broadband and back Creek and Gainesboro.
I would make a motion that we asked the planning commission to
consider reducing the CUP fees.
In addition to looking at other alternatives because the CUP fees.
Any additional fees is a burden on some of the lower income folks in Gainesboro.
We need to have alternatives.
And I would encourage anyone who voted against the alternative that was
put towards the night.
The vote in favor of at least taking the step to reevaluate the 2013 study.
And look for other alternatives beyond just the CUP.
The motion is a second.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We can.
Would certainly vote.
Yes, sir.
As well as I.
I'm in.
I think I would point out.
We'll get the action.
We'll get the action.
On the 750.
So I would.
Or just to go way below that because go.
Yeah, so I would encourage to do that.
But in addition to that, I really hope that we'll go beyond the CUP.
Because I think there are alternatives that were set forth in the 2013 study that
we should be looking at investing as a county.
As far as strategic placement of facilities.
We shouldn't be getting caught up in the mythology surrounding.
What people are talking about on the internet with regard to 5G and things that will take 20
years before it gets here.
And we'll not be at the speed that they're going to be seeing in the city.
So that is not rely on the hope that tomorrow is going to pan out with better technology.
That's really work hard to get something that's going to work for our folks today.
I appreciate it.
I agree.
Question anyone.
So I fully support that.
Action.
He is.
Notify that something.
I've just happened near them.
Or if they're supposed to.
You think that we.
I can see when a presence directly across from my driveway.
There's fiber on both sides of my home.
And I can't get it to my home.
I was the only quote I could ever get was 20 grand to run the cable.
It's ridiculous.
And I live.
Share a property line with a secure federal facility that.
Make makes use of that very heavily.
Further discussion anyone supervisor done.
Mr. Chairman, so trying to solve a problem that we all I think we all are in agreement with.
Are you proposing that this go back to a committee or you proposing that some supervisors work together to try to come up with another.
Motion was descended back to planning with the direction that we have discussed.
Okay. Thank you.
Are you okay with that?
That's in fact a planning for planning to come forward with a proposal that we all.
Think to solve this process and Mr. Chairman to do that expediously as opposed to.
Pushing it out.
So at least from one board member.
Motion.
No, but there's a process.
I understand.
I've been reading regulations of committee.
It reviews all ordinance and recommends to the PC the PC recommends to this body.
This body makes all the decision.
I'm just encouraging them to move expeditiously.
That's all.
Well, they with it.
There's a lot of meetings. I don't see.
They're real.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you Mr. Chairman.
Further discussion.
All those in favor.
Aye.
Aye.
Opposed.
No.
Motion carries.
Mr. Chairman.
Yes.
I have one more thing I'd like to discuss.
Mr. President.
There's been a lot of issues in my district with.
This.
Why will it center that.
Issues.
Meaning towers that are built things are out of compliance.
A lot of zoning ordinances that have been issues.
And it caused me a lot of concern.
And I've spoke with supervisor McCarthy.
And I've spoken with many folks from my district.
And there's a strong.
Distaste or bad taste in their mouth.
That these people were just able to get away with.
And I'm blatantly violating the ordinances that are in place.
After having spoke with some of those folks.
I think that they're right.
And I'd like to make a motion.
I'll read it here for you.
I'd like to move that this board would direct staff to present to the planning commission.
And amended ordinance language that would increase the civil penalty or financial penalty.
For any person found to be in violation of the zoning ordinances of Frederick County.
The penalty to be the max allowed.
Privilation under Virginia law such as the motion.
Promotion is our second and the second discussion.
Anyone.
Are we ready?
Supervisor Fisher.
Supervisor McCarthy.
Supervisor slaughter.
Supervisor Wells.
Supervisor.
The done.
I.
Supervisor.
Great.
I.
Chair.
But it's on motion carries the chinems.
Please share those written motions with the clerk.
Thank you, sir.
Anything else?
Anyone?
Vice Chairman Wells.
Chairman.
I moved that we adjourned.
That adjourned.
The second.
All those in favor.
Aye.
We'll stand adjourned.
We thank everyone for their time.
And their patience and their input.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
